Hindi: जैसा कि परीक्षण की निगरानी की गई थी और इसकी प्रभावशीलता का मूल्यांकन किया गया था, उसी तरह पूरक कीट नियंत्रण परीक्षण में निशानेबाज़ों की रेंजरों द्वारा बारीकी से निगरानी की जानी थी. = English: Shooters in the supplementary pest control trial were to be closely supervised by rangers, as the trial was monitored and its effectiveness evaluated.	This is matched by Norway, Sweden and New Zealand, but otherwise quite unique (e.g. in the Netherlands the figure is one to forty).	This figure is comparable to that of Norway, Sweden and New Zealand, but otherwise quite unique (as in the Netherlands, where it is one to forty).
Hindi: आम शब्दों में, जब प्रबंधक अपने पूर्व सहयोगियों का नेतृत्व करना शुरू करते हैं तो दो तरह के बर्ताव सामने आते हैं. स्पेक्ट्रम का एक सिरा “उन लड़कों में से एक” (या लड़कियों में से एक) बने रहने की कोशिश कर रहा है. = English: Generally speaking, two behaviors can emerge as managers begin to lead their former peers. One end of the spectrum is trying to remain “one of the guys” (or gals).	If visiting a formally arranged garden, collecting "specimens" is also going to get you ejected, without discussion.	If you go to a formal garden and collect “specimens” without discussion, you will be ejected.
Hindi: मेडिसिनेस सेंस फ्रोंटियर के प्रवक्ता रिचर्ड वीरमन ने कहा: “अंगोला में महामारी फैलने की रफ़्तार अब तक के सबसे बुरे दौर में पहुँच गई है और वहाँ के हालात बहुत खराब हैं.” = English: Spokesman for Medecines Sans Frontiere Richard Veerman said: "Angola is heading for its worst ever outbreak and the situation remains very bad in Angola," he said.	Officials for the city of Amsterdam and the Anne Frank Museum state that the tree is infected with a fungus and poses a public health hazard as they argue that it was in imminent danger of falling over.	The Amsterdam city and Anne Frank museum state officials say the tree is infected with a fungus and poses a public health risk because they argue that the risk of falling was complete.
Hindi: फ्लूक ने लिखा है कि कुछ लोगों ने महिलाओं द्वारा महिलाओं के स्वास्थ्य के बारे में बुलवाने का प्रयास किया जिसमें वे असफल रहे। = English: Fluke wrote that the efforts by some to drown out women from speaking out about women’s health were unsuccessful.	Travellers bound for countries with heavy taxation can sometimes save a considerable amount of money, especially on products such as alcoholic beverages and tobacco.	Tourists in high tax countries can sometimes save a lot on alcohol and tobacco products.
Hindi: चेरी ब्लॉसम देखना हनामी कहलाता है, ये 8वीं सदी से जापानी संस्कृति का एक हिस्सा है. = English: Cherry blossom viewing, known as hanami, has been a part of Japanese culture since the 8th century.	Danielle Lantagne, a UN expert on the disease, stated the outbreak was likely caused by the peacekeepers.	The UN's expert on the disease, Daniel Lanteigne, said that the outbreak is due to peace-loving people.
Hindi: बर्फ़ीले तूफ़ान के दौरान, आपको फँसाने के लिए पर्याप्त बर्फ बहुत कम समय में गिर सकती है। = English: During blizzards, enough snow to get you stuck can fall in very little time.	Although the water level will only rise a few feet after the flood, officials are hoping it will be enough to restore eroded sandbars downstream.	Although the water level will only rise a few feet after the flood, officials are hoping it will be enough to restore the lower sandbars.
Hindi: हमारे ग्रह की नदियों से महासागरों में जाने वाले पानी का 20% हिस्सा अमेज़न से आता है। = English: A full 20 percent of the water that pours out of the planet's rivers into the oceans comes from the Amazon.	Subcultures can be distinctive because of the age, ethnicity, class, location, and/or gender of the members.	Subcultures may differ in age, race, class, location, and/ or gender.
Hindi: रात के समय 150 और 200 के बीच प्रतियों बनती है , जिन्हे अब “डनलप ब्रॉडसाइड्स” के रूप में जाना जाता है। = English: Through the night between 150 and 200 copies were made, now known as "Dunlap broadsides".	He produced over 1,000 stamps for Sweden and 28 other countries.	He made over 1,000 stamps for Sweden and 28 other countries.
Hindi: यहाँ कई तरह की फ़्रेंच वाइन मिलती हैं, लेकिन शायद न्यूज़ीलैंड और ऑस्ट्रेलिया की वाइन बेहतर होगी. = English: There are many French wines to be had, but the New Zealand and Australian wines might travel better.	NextGen is a system the FAA claims would allow aircraft to fly shorter routes and save millions of gallons of fuel each year and cut carbon emissions.	NextGen system claims that it will make it possible to fly on smaller routes and save millions of gallons of fuel every year and reduce carbon emissions.
Hindi: हालाँकि यह अकेला नहीं है, प्रयोग करना, और प्रयोग एक ऐसा परीक्षण होता है जिसका इस्तेमाल करके एक या इससे ज़्यादा संभावित परिकल्पनाओं को ख़त्म करने, सवाल करने, और अवलोकन करने से भी वैज्ञानिक शोध को मार्गदर्शन मिलता है. = English: It isn’t alone though, experimentation, and an experiment is a test that is used to eliminate one or more of the possible hypotheses, asking questions, and making observations also guide scientific research.	The early reports say the plane was diverted back to Afghanistan after being denied an emergency landing in Ürümqi.	The initial reports say that the plane was denied an emergency landing in Urumqi and was then flown back to Afghanistan.
Hindi: तरलता के आधार पर एक करी “सूखी” या “गीली” हो सकती है. = English: A curry can be either "dry" or "wet" depending on the amount of liquid.	Also the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said that there was no Tsunami indication.	The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center also said there were no signs of a tsunami.
Hindi: हालाँकि, पुराने साम्राज्य के अंत तक पत्थर से पिरामिड निर्माण जारी रहा, कभी भी गीज़ा के पिरामिड के आकार और उनके निर्माण की तकनीकी उत्कृष्टता को पार नहीं किया जा सका। = English: Although pyramid-building in stone continued until the end of the Old Kingdom, the pyramids of Giza were never surpassed in their size and the technical excellence of their construction.	But, after losing the captain's wicket India only made 36 runs loosing 7 wickets to end the innings.	But, after losing captain's wicket, India could only manage 36 runs in the end of the innings with 7 wickets down.
Hindi: बच्चों को कई वजहों से फ़ॉस्टर केयर में रखा जाता है, जिनमें अनदेखी करना, बुरा बर्ताव करना, और यहां तक कि ज़बरदस्ती वसूली करना भी शामिल है. = English: Children are placed in Foster Care for a wide variety of reasons that range from neglect, to abuse, and even to extortion.	Her first was the Slalom, where she earned a Did Not Finish in her first run. 36 of the 116 competitors had the same result in that race.	His first slalom was where he did not complete the race in his first run. Of the 116 competitors, 36 athletes finished in the same place.
Hindi: यह उपग्रह-आधारित प्रौद्योगिकी का उपयोग करता है, जो पुराने ज़मीनी-रडार-आधारित तकनीक के विपरीत है, जिससे हवाई यातायात नियंत्रकों को अधिक सटीकता के साथ विमान को चलाने और पायलटों को अधिक सटीक जानकारी देने में मदद मिलती है. = English: It uses satellite-based technology as opposed to older ground-radar-based technology to allow air traffic controllers to pinpoint aircraft with greater precision and give pilots more accurate information.	On 15 August 1940, the Allies invaded southern France, the invasion was called "Operation Dragoon".	On 15 August 1940, the Allies invaded southern France, the invasion being called “Operation Dragoon”.
Hindi: बारहसिंगा खेती समी के लिए एक महत्वपूर्ण आजीविका है और इस व्यापार के इर्दगिर्द की संस्कृति अन्य व्यवसायों के लिए भी महत्वपूर्ण है। = English: Reindeer husbandry is an important livelihood among the Sámi and the culture surrounding the trade is important also for many with other professions.	Science now indicates that this massive carbon economy has dislodged the biosphere from one of its stable states that has supported human evolution for the past two million years.	Science now indicates that this vast carbon economy has removed the biosphere from one of its stable states that has supported human development for the last twenty million years.
Hindi: मुख्य लोकल बियर ‘Number one’ है, यह एक काम्प्लेक्स बियर नहीं है, बल्कि यह आपको ताजगी देती है. अन्य लोकल बियर को “Manta” कहा जाता है. = English: The main local beer is 'Number One', it is not a complex beer, but pleasant and refreshing. The other local beer is called "Manta".	The road where the crash happened was temporarily closed while emergency services freed the driver from the red Audi TT.	The road where the accident took place was temporarily closed, while emergency services removed the driver from the red Audi TT.
Hindi: आख़िरकार, लोहे के पहियों ने लकड़ी के पहियों की जगह ले ली. 1767 में, पूरी तरह लोहे से बनी रेल की शुरुआत हो गई. = English: Eventually, wooden wheels were replaced by iron wheels. In 1767, the first full-iron rails were introduced.	Thousands of years ago, a man called Aristarchus said that the Solar System moved around the Sun.	Hundreds of years ago, Aristotle, a man, said that the solar system revolves around the sun.
Hindi: लोकप्रिय खेलों में फ़ुटबॉल, बास्केटबॉल, वॉलीबॉल, वाटर पोलो, तलवारबाज़ी, रग्बी, साइकिलिंग, आइस हॉकी, रोलर हॉकी और एफ़ 1 मोटर रेसिंग शामिल हैं. = English: Popular sports include football, basketball, volleyball, water-polo, fencing, rugby, cycling, ice hockey, roller hockey and F1 motor racing.	Everyone can achieve enlightenment. The only thing standing in the way of this goal is our own tension and negativity.	Everyone can learn. The only thing in the way of this goal is our stress and negativity.
Hindi: बर्फीले और हिममय सड़कों पर, घर्षण कम होता है और आप ड्राइव नहीं कर सकेंगे जैसे कि आप केवल डामर पर चला रहे हों। = English: On icy and snowy roadways, friction is low and you cannot drive as if you were on bare asphalt.	Why would an organization want to go through the time consuming process of establishing a learning organization? One goal for putting organizational learning concepts into practice is innovation.	Why would any organization want to adopt a more time-consuming process of establishing a training organization? The purpose of bringing organizational training concepts into practice is innovation.
Hindi: इसी तरह, पुरुषों के लिए घुटनों को ढँकने वाले ट्राउज़र पहनना ज़रूरी है. = English: Along the same line, men are required to wear trousers covering the knees.	The speeds of 802.11n are substantially faster than that of its predecessors with a maximum theoretical throughput of 600Mbit/s.	The maximum theoretical throughput of 600 megabits per second of 802.11n is much faster than its predecessors.
Hindi: दिखाए गए दृष्टिकोण हर कहीं उपलब्ध ज़्यादा विस्तृत जानकारी की तुलना में अक्सर सतही, सामान्य और अति-साधारण होते हैं. = English: The views presented are often cursory, general and oversimplified compared to the more detailed information available elsewhere.	North Shore beaches (in North Harbour district) are on the Pacific Ocean and stretch from Long Bay in the north to Devonport in the south.	The North Shore (in the North Harbour district) is a stretch of the Pacific Ocean from Long Bay to Devonport.
Hindi: हू ने विकासशील देशों को “ पुराने तरीकों से प्रदूषण फैलाने से रोकने और बाद में सफाई करने के लिए प्रोत्साहित किया।” = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	Some venues offer alcoholic beverages on the house. However, drunkenness impairs judgement, and all good gamblers know the importance of staying sober.	Some places provide intoxicating drinks. Although intoxication affects decision making, all good gamblers know the importance of staying sober.
Hindi: कीड़े हवा में उड़ने वाले पहले जानवर थे। उड़ान भरने की उनकी क्षमता ने उन्हें दुश्मनों को अधिक आसानी से बचने में मदद की और भोजन और साथी को अधिक कुशलता से पाने में भी। = English: Insects were the first animals to take to the air. Their ability to fly helped them evade enemies more easily and find food and mates more efficiently.	Women should realize that cultural differences may result in what they would consider harassment and it is not uncommon to be followed, grabbed by the arm, etc.	Women should realize that cultural differences can make them vulnerable to harassment and that it may happen that they are followed or that someone grabs their arm forcefully, etc.
Hindi: सभी गुफाओं, जिनका नाम “सात बहनें” रखा गया, में घुसने की जगह का डायमीटर कम से कम 100 से 250 मीटर (328 से 820 फ़ीट) है. = English: All of the cave entrances, which were named "The Seven Sisters", are at least 100 to 250 meters (328 to 820 feet) in diameter.	There may be more maria on the near side because the crust is thinner. It was easier for lava to rise up to the surface.	The thin crust made many maria likely. Lava flowed easily on the surface.
Hindi: वाहन को उसी दिन तकरीबन 1200 GMT के समय पर दुर्घटनास्थल से दूर ले जाया गया. = English: The vehicle itself was taken away from the scene of the accident at approximately 1200 GMT on the same day.	Others include Livingston Island, and Deception where the flooded caldera of a still-active volcano provides a spectacular natural harbour.	Livingston and Deception Island, where active calderas form excellent natural harbours, are other places.
Hindi: वैज्ञानिकों का यह कहना है कि इस जानवर के रोमछिद्र भूरे और कैरोटीनॉयड के नीचे का रंग भूरा-भूरा था। = English: . Scientists say this animal's plumage was chestnut-brown on top with a pale or carotenoid-colored underside.	Cherry blossom viewing, known as hanami, has been a part of Japanese culture since the 8th century.	Cherry blossom viewing is hanami, a tradition that dates back to the 8th century and is a part of Japanese culture.
Hindi: स्थानीय नल का पानी पीने के लिए एकदम सुरक्षित है, लेकिन यदि आपको डर है तो बोतल बंद पानी आसानी से मिल जाता है. = English: The local tap water is perfectly safe to drink, but bottled water is easy to find if you are fearful.	The researchers observed crystals formed in cat urine by the addition of melamine and cyanuric acid.	Researchers have observed the formation of crystals in cat urine when malic acid and citric acid are mixed.
Hindi: शेरों का समूह वयस्क नर के साथ-साथ तीस से ज़्यादा मादा और शावकों के साथ एक से तीन तक का बना होता है. = English: Prides are made up of one to three related adult males, along with as many as thirty females and cubs.	However, the driver sustained serious injuries to the head.	The driver, however, suffered serious head injuries.
Hindi: प्री-ऑपरेटिव ट्रांसजेंडर लोगों को यह उम्मीद नहीं करनी चाहिए कि वे अपनी निजता और सम्मान को बरकरार रखते हुए स्कैनर्स से गुज़र पाएँगे. = English: Pre-operative transgender people should not expect to pass through the scanners with their privacy and dignity intact.	The first known transportation was walking, humans began walking upright two million years ago with the emergence of Homo Erectus (meaning upright man).	The first known mode of transportation was walking, humans started walking 20 million years ago with the emergence of Homo erectus (i.e. upright man).
Hindi: विज्ञान का मुख्य लक्ष्य वैज्ञानिक पद्धति के माध्यम से दुनिया के काम करने के तरीके का पता लगाना है। वास्तव में अधिकांश वैज्ञानिक अनुसंधानों इस विधि पर निर्धारित हैं | = English: Science’s main goal is to figure out the way the world works through the scientific method. This method in fact guides most scientific research.	Crossties were introduced fairly early to hold the tracks in place. Gradually, however, it was realised that tracks would be more efficient if they had a stip of iron on the top.	The use of crossties to keep the tracks in place was introduced long before. But gradually it was realized that if the tracks were made of iron sheets, they would be more efficient.
Hindi: हालाँकि, पुराने साम्राज्य के अंत तक पत्थर से पिरामिड निर्माण जारी रहा, कभी भी गीज़ा के पिरामिड के आकार और उनके निर्माण की तकनीकी उत्कृष्टता को पार नहीं किया जा सका। = English: Although pyramid-building in stone continued until the end of the Old Kingdom, the pyramids of Giza were never surpassed in their size and the technical excellence of their construction.	At the same time, the German navy, using mainly U-boats, was trying to stop this traffic.	In addition, the German navy was mainly using U-boats to try to block this traffic.
Hindi: लोगों की भीड़ ने राजा और रानी को अपनी गाड़ी की खिड़की खोलने के लिए मजबूर किया. = English: The mob of people forced the King And Queen to have their carriage windows wide open.	Tamaki Drive beaches are on the Waitemata Harbour, in the upmarket suburbs of Mission Bay and St Heliers in Central Auckland.	The Tamaki Drive is a coastal road that runs along the waterfront from Mission Bay to the expensive suburb of St Heliers in central Auckland.
Hindi: याद रखें कि मुख्य स्टेज पर म्यूज़िक बंद हो जाने के बाद भी, फ़ेस्टिवल के कुछ हिस्से ऐसे होंगे जो देर रात तक संगीत बजाते रहेंगे. = English: Remember that even though music on the main stages may have finished, there may be sections of the festival that will keep playing music until late into the night.	Everything in the Universe is made of matter. All matter is made of tiny particles called atoms.	All things in the universe are made of matter. All matter is made up of tiny particles called atoms.
Hindi: इस गतिशील परिवहन शटल में हर कोई किसी न किसी तरह से जुड़ा हुआ है, और निजी कारों पर आधारित परिवहन प्रणाली का समर्थन करता है. = English: In this dynamic transport shuttle everyone is somehow connected with, and supporting, a transport system based on private cars.	Several hostages have been rescued and least six have been confirmed dead so far.	So far many hostages have been rescued and at least six have been confirmed dead.
Hindi: छोटी संस्कृतियां बिना बड़े ऐतिहासिक सबूतों के खत्म हो जाती हैं और उन्हें सभ्यता का दर्जा नहीं मिल पाता. = English: Minor cultures often vanish without leaving relevant historic evidence and fail to be recognized as proper civilizations.	Today, the only insects that cannot fold back their wings are dragon flies and mayflies.	Only dragonflies and mayflies are able to fold their wings back now.
Hindi: लेकिन उनकी खोज पर ध्यान दिए बिना, एस्किमो जनजाति उस समय पहले से ही वहाँ रह रही थी. = English: But regardless of his discovery, Eskimo tribes were already living there at the time.	In 2002 Goma was destroyed by lava from the Nyiragongo volcano which buried most of the town’s streets, particularly the town centre.	In 2002, Goma was destroyed by the Nyiragongo volcano, which buried most of the city's streets, especially the central part of the city.
Hindi: हालाँकि विदाई के समय विन्फ़्रे की आँखों में आँसू थे उन्होंने अपने प्रशंसकों को स्पष्ट किया कि वे वापस आएँगी. = English: Although Winfrey was tearful in her farewell, she made it clear to her fans she will be back.	It was one of the major stops during Henry Louis Gates' PBS special Wonders of the African World.	This was a major milestone for African world in PBS Gates with Henry Louis.
Hindi: “वह [वेल्स] शुरू से ही हमसे झूठ बोलता रहा है। सबसे पहले, ढोंग करते हुए कि यह कानूनी कारणों के लिए था। दूसरा, अपनी कला को हटाने के समय तक यह जताते हुए कि वह हमारी बात सुन रहा था।” = English: "He [Wales] basically lied to us from the start. First, by acting as if this was for legal reasons. Second, by pretending he was listening to us, right up to his art deletion."	The surface of the Moon is made of rocks and dust. The outer layer of the Moon is called the crust.	The surface of the moon is made of rocks and dust. The outer layer of the moon is called the crust.
Hindi: ओहियो में अधिकारियों का कहना है कि एक डॉक्टर जो पिट्सबर्ग, पेंसिल्वेनिया में बच्चों के अस्पताल में काम करती थी उन पर बुधवार को अपनी कार की डिक्की में अपनी माँ के मृत पाए जाने के बाद संगीन हत्या के आरोप लगेंगे. = English: A doctor who worked at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania will be charged with aggravated murder after her mother was found dead in the trunk of her car Wednesday, authorities in Ohio say.	Due to the cluster/group of islands Japan has, Japan is often referred to, on a geographical stance, as an "archipelago"	Japan, with its archipelago of islands, is often referred to geographically as an "archipelago".
Hindi: डॉ. एहुड उर, नोवा स्कोटिया के हैलिफ़ैक्स में डलहौज़ी विश्वविद्यालय में चिकित्सा के प्रोफ़ेसर और कनाडाई डायबिटीज़ एसोसिएशन के नैदानिक ​​और वैज्ञानिक विभाग के अध्यक्ष ने आगाह किया कि शोध अभी भी अपने शुरुआती दिनों में है. = English: Dr. Ehud Ur, professor of medicine at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia and chair of the clinical and scientific division of the Canadian Diabetes Association cautioned that the research is still in its early days.	It has a notably wide variety of plant communities, due to its range of microclimates, differing soils and varying levels of altitude.	It has a wide range of microclimates, different soil types and varying levels of elevation, which has resulted in a wide variety of plant life.
Hindi: उदाहरण के लिए, “लर्निंग” और “सोशलाइजेशन” को इंटरनेट इस्तेमाल करने की अहम वजह के तौर पर बताया गया है (जेम्स एट अल., 1995). = English: For example, “learning” and “socialization” are suggested as important motivations for Internet use (James et al., 1995).	The Hershey and Chase experiment was one of the leading suggestions that DNA was a genetic material.	The major suggestion of the Hershey and Chase experiment was that DNA was genetic material.
Hindi: खुली बहस और मध्य पूर्व की ओर नीति के बारे में संयुक्त राज्य अमेरिका में आम सहमति बनाने के लिए रिपोर्ट एक याचिका के साथ खुलती है. = English: The Report opens with plea for open debate and the formation of a consensus in the United States about the policy towards the Middle East.	The bridge is scheduled to be fully operational in September 2017, when the Brazilian customs checkpoints are expected to be finished.	The bridge is expected to be fully operational by September 2017, when the Brazilian customs posts are expected to be closed.
Hindi: एक दंपत्ति फैसला ले सकता है कि यह उनके या उनके बच्चे के हित में बिलकुल नहीं है कि एक दूसरा बच्चा किया जाए | = English: A couple may decide it is not in their best interest, or in the interest of their child, to raise a baby.	People may not anticipate that patience and understanding are also necessary for travellers returning home.	People cannot estimate the patience and understanding that is required for the returnees.
Hindi: 2010 के भूकंप के बाद हैती में पहुँचे संयुक्त राष्ट्र के शांति सैनिकों को उस बीमारी को फैलाने के लिए दोषी ठहराया जा रहा है जो सेना के शिविर के पास शुरू हुई थी. = English: UN peacekeepers, whom arrived in Haiti after the 2010 earthquake, are being blamed for the spread of the disease which started near the troop's encampment.	With only eighteen medals available a day, a number of countries have failed to make the medal podium.	Due to the availability of only eighteen medals in a day, many countries failed to get their medals on the podium.
Hindi: 2002 में गोमा को न्यिरगोंगो ज्वालामुखी ने लावा द्वारा नष्ट कर दिया गया था, जिसने शहर की अधिकांश सड़कों, विशेष रूप से शहर के बीच के भाग को दफन कर दिया था। = English: In 2002 Goma was destroyed by lava from the Nyiragongo volcano which buried most of the town’s streets, particularly the town centre.	Try aiming somewhere where you are not caught again or, depending on your skills and on whether you have been noticed, you might want to wait for rescue.	Move to a place where you won’t get stuck again or, depending on your skill and whether or not someone is watching you, you may want to wait for rescue.
Hindi: दिलचस्प बात यह है कि पेंसिलवेनिया वाइल्ड्स जैसे रास्ते के दूसरे कई हिस्सों के मुकाबले यहां मोबाइल फ़ोन सेवा ज़्यादा बेहतर है. = English: Curiously, though, mobile phone service is much stronger here than along many other stretches of the route, e.g. the Pennsylvania Wilds.	Of course, the superprofits derived from the protracted exploitation of the Filipino people would constitute the basic gains of U.S. imperialism.	Of course, the superfastits that Filipino exploitation will yield will form the basic benefits of American imperialism.
Hindi: इसके शुरुआती दिनों में, इस शो को केवल लंबे समय तक चलने वाली इंटरनेट रेडियो साइट TogiNet रेडियो, टॉक रेडियो पर केंद्रित एक साइट पर फ़ीचर किया गया था. = English: In its early days, the show was featured solely at the long-running internet radio site TogiNet Radio, a site focused on talk radio.	To understand the Templars one must understand the context that prompted the creation of the order.	To understand the Templars, one must understand the context that inspired the orders.
Hindi: अधिकांश मठों में बिना तैयारी के आने वाली महिलाओं के लिए सिर पर लपेटने का कपडा उपलब्ध कराया जाता है, लेकिन अगर आप अपना, विशेष रूप से चमकीले रंग का कपड़ा लाते हैं, तो आपको प्रवेश द्वार पर साधु या नन से एक प्यारी सी मुस्कान मिलेगी। = English: Most of the monasteries do provide wraps for women who come unprepared, but if you bring your own, especially one with bright colors, you'll get a smile from the monk or nun at the entrance.	As a result, the process of an organization working together to overcome an obstacle can lead to a new innovative process to serve the customer's need.	As a result, the process of an organization working together to remove a barrier can be an innovative process for meeting customer needs.
Hindi: कार्यक्रम सुबह 8:30 बजे शुरू हुआ था। स्थानीय समय (15.00 UTC)। = English: The program started at 8:30 p.m. local time (15.00 UTC).	During the 1920s, the prevailing attitudes of most citizens and nations was that of pacifism and isolation.	In the 1920s, most citizens and countries had a pacifist and isolationist outlook.
Hindi: पौधे फ़ोटोसिंथेसिस द्वारा सूर्य से अपना भोजन बनाते हैं. वह छाया भी देते हैं. = English: Plants make their food from the sun by photosynthesis. They also provide shade.	Parisians have a reputation for being egocentric, rude and arrogant.	It is believed that the people of Paris are arrogant, uncouth and haughty.
Hindi: सोमवार, 10:08 बजे एक मामूली भूकंप ने पश्चिमी मोंटाना को हिला दिया। = English: A moderate earthquake shook western Montana at 10:08 p.m. on Monday.	However, due to the slow communication channels, styles in the west could lag behind by 25 to 30 year.	Although slow communication channels could push western living 25-30 years back.
Hindi: हम इस प्रक्रिया को प्रजातिकरण कहते हैं, जिसका अर्थ है नई प्रजातियों का गठन। प्रजातिकरण एक अच्छा कदम है और विकास का एक बहुत महत्वपूर्ण हिस्सा है। = English: We call this process speciation, which just means the formation of new species. Speciation is an unavoidable consequence and a very important part of evolution.	In remote locations, without cell phone coverage, a satellite phone may be your only option.	In remote places, where there is no cell phone coverage, a satellite phone may be your only option.
Hindi: बच्चों के लिए बनी जगह में पिरामिड साउंड एंड लाइट शो सबसे दिलचस्प चीज़ों में से एक है. = English: The pyramid sound and light show is one of the most interesting things in the area for kids.	In good conditions you will be able to cover somewhat greater distances than walking – but only very seldom you will get the speeds of cross country skiing without a heavy backpack in groomed tracks.	You can cover a lot of distance on foot in good conditions - but only a very small amount of it will be at the speed of cross-country skiing on prepared tracks without a heavy backpack.
Hindi: लड़ाई के आख़िरी दो सालों में, पहले के साथी अब दुश्मन बन गए थे और शीत युद्ध की शुरुआत हो चुकी थी. = English: With two years of the end of the war, the former allies were now enemies and the Cold War began.	The debate was sparked by controversy over spending on relief and reconstruction in the wake Hurricane Katrina; which some fiscal conservatives have humorously labeled "Bush's New Orleans Deal."	The long-running controversy over relief and reconstruction in the wake of Hurricane Katrina has led to a debate over the Bush administration's "New Orleans deal"; some fiscal conservatives have made fun of the "Bush's New Orleans deal".
Hindi: कैल्शियम और पोटैशियम जैसे तत्वों को धातु माना जाता है। बेशक, चांदी और सोने जैसी धातुएं भी हैं। = English: Elements like calcium and potassium are considered metals. Of course, there are also metals like silver and gold.	They have cancelled the tour after lead singer Steven Tyler was injured after he fell off stage while performing on August 5.	On August 5, the main singer of the band, Stevie Tiller, fell off the stage while performing and was injured. He then cancelled the tour.
Hindi: यह भी एक अंगूठी पहनने के लिए उपयोगी है (सिर्फ एक बहुत महंगा लगने के लिए नहीं है| ) = English: It is helpful to also wear a ring (just not one that looks too expensive.	All of the cave entrances, which were named "The Seven Sisters", are at least 100 to 250 meters (328 to 820 feet) in diameter.	All the caves, which have been named “7 Sisters”, have a diameter of at least 100 to 250 meters (328 to 820 feet).
Hindi: इसे केमिकल का pH कहा जाता है. आप लाल गोभी के जूस का इस्तेमाल करके एक संकेतक बना सकते हैं. = English: This is called a chemical's pH. You can make an indicator using red cabbage juice.	Many trips to the reef are made all year around, and injuries due to any of these causes on the reef are rare.	Reef trips are made throughout the year, and reef damage is infrequent, even though the reef is visited for many reasons.
Hindi: हज़ारों साल पहले, एरिस्टार्चस नामक एक व्यक्ति ने कहा था कि सौर मंडल सूर्य के चारों ओर घूमता है। = English: Thousands of years ago, a man called Aristarchus said that the Solar System moved around the Sun.	There is no universal definition for which manufactured items are antiques. Some tax agencies define goods older than 100 years as antiques.	There is no global definition of what constitutes antiques. Some tax agencies define antiques as 100 years old or more.
Hindi: उनके पंख और उड़ने की वजह से कई लोग उनको डायनासोर नहीं मानते. = English: Many people don't think about them as dinosaurs because they have feathers and can fly.	Needless to say, if you know a Romance language, it will be easier for you to learn Portuguese.	There is no need to say that if you know Romance languages, learning Portuguese will be easier for you.
Hindi: कोई अतिरिक्त परिवहन नहीं लगाया जा रहा है और वेम्बली में ओवरग्राउंड ट्रेनें नहीं रुकेंगी, और ग्राउंड पर कार पार्किंग तथा पार्क और सवारी की सुविधाएँ उपलब्ध नहीं होंगी. = English: No extra transport is being put on and overground trains will not stop at Wembley, and car parking and park-and-ride facilities are unavailable at the ground.	Liberal criticism of the reconstruction effort has focused on the awarding of reconstruction contracts to perceived Washington insiders.	The clear criticism of the reconstruction efforts has been focused on Washington's alleged close friends getting reconstruction contracts.
Hindi: ऐसी चीजें अलग-अलग अनुशासन बन गई हैं, जो वास्तविक जीवन की समस्याओं के समाधान प्रदान करने पर ध्यान देती हैं। = English: Such things have become separate disciplines, which focus on providing solutions to real life problems.	Since the arrival of man to the Galapagos, many mammals have been introduced including goats, horses, cows, rats, cats and dogs.	Since the arrival of humans on Galapagos, many mammals have arrived, including goats, horses, cows, mice, cats and dogs.
Hindi: इतालवी भाषा में उच्चारण करना तुलनात्मक रूप से आसान है क्योंकि ज़्यादातर शब्दों का उच्चारण वैसे ही किया जाता है जैसे उन्हें लिखा जाता है = English: Pronunciation is relatively easy in Italian since most words are pronounced exactly how they are written	Danius said, "Right now we are doing nothing. I have called and sent emails to his closest collaborator and received very friendly replies. For now, that is certainly enough."	Danious said, “For now, we are doing nothing. I have emailed my co-workers and they have replied in a friendly manner. For now, I will just say that.”
Hindi: यहूदी और गैर-यहूदी की तरह, अभी भी ऐसे कई पुरुष और महिलाएं जीवित हैं जो उस समय बचने में सफल रहे और कई जिनके प्रियजनों को मार दिया गया या उनके मरने तक उनसे काम करवाया गया. = English: There are still many men and women alive who survived their time here, and many more who had loved ones who were murdered or worked to death there, Jews and non-Jews alike.	The Babylonians built each of their gods a primary temple that was considered the home of the god.	The Babylonians built a primary temple for each of their gods, which was considered the god's home.
Hindi: फ़ॉकलैंड की आधिकारिक मुद्रा फ़ॉकलैंड पाउंड (एफकेएपी) है. इसे एक ब्रिटिश पाउंड (जीबीपी) के बराबर तय किया गया है. = English: The official Falklands currency is the Falkland pound (FKP) whose value is set equivalent to that of one British pound (GBP).	They have feet with scales and claws, they lay eggs, and they walk on their two back legs like a T-Rex.	They have scales and claws, lay eggs, and walk on their hind legs like a T-Rex.
Hindi: स्पेस में सैटेलाइट या दूरबीन रखने के लिए 100 फ़ीट से ज़्यादा ऊँचे बड़े रॉकेट की ज़रूरत होती है. = English: It takes a giant rocket over a 100 feet high to put a satellite or telescope in space.	Commons Administrator Adam Cuerden expressed his frustration over the deletions when he spoke to Wikinews last month.	Commons administrator Adm. Queden, who spoke to Wikinews last month, expressed his disappointment over the deletion of the article.
Hindi: विदेश में सेक्स रिअसाइनमेंट सर्जरी की योजना बनाने वाले यात्रियों को सुनिश्चित करना चाहिए कि वे वापसी यात्रा के लिए वैध दस्तावेज साथ लेकर जाएँं। = English: Voyagers planning sex reassignment surgery abroad must ensure they're carrying valid documents for the return trip.	Buses depart the inter-district bus station (across the river) throughout the day, though most, especially those heading to the east and Jakar/Bumthang leave between 06:30 and 07:30.	Inter-district bus station (which is across the river) has buses running all day, though most, especially those going to the east and Jakar/Bumthang, leave around 06:30 and 07:30 in the morning.
Hindi: न्यूरोबायोलॉजिकल डेटा संज्ञान की जाँच के लिए सैद्धांतिक दृष्टिकोण के लिए भौतिक प्रमाण देते है. इसलिए ये अनुसंधान के क्षेत्र को सीमित बनाते हैं और इसे कहीं ज़्यादा सटीक बनाते हैं. = English: Neurobiological data provide physical evidence for a theoretical approach to the investigation of cognition. Therefore it narrows the research area and makes it much more exact.	Their thermal behavior is not as steady as large caves on Earth that often maintain a fairly constant temperature, but it is consistent with these being deep holes in the ground," said Glen Cushing of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Astrogeology Team and of Northern Arizona University located in Flagstaff, Arizona.	Their thermal behaviour is not like the large caves on Earth that often maintain a fairly stable temperature, but is more like the deep holes in the ground,” said the geological team of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) and the Glan Cluff, Arizona, located at the northern Arizona University.
Hindi: यह कई मामलों में रोगसूचक उपचार की तरह ही है। हालाँकि, अगर हम केवल अस्थायी समाधान नहीं चाहते हैं, तो हमें समस्याओं की जड़ को ढूँढ कर उन्हें निष्क्रिय करना चाहिए। = English: This is just like symptomatic treatment in many cases. However, if we do not only want a temporary solution, then we should find the root of the problems, and we should deactivate them.	Most modern research telescopes are enormous facilities in remote areas with favorable atmospheric conditions.	Most modern research is very convenient for working in remote areas with telescopes that have suitable atmospheric conditions.
Hindi: तमाकी ड्राइव समुद्री तट वाटेमाटा हार्बर पर, सेंट्रल ऑकलैंड में मिशन बे और सेंट हेलियर्स के महंगे उपनगरों में मौजूद हैं. = English: Tamaki Drive beaches are on the Waitemata Harbour, in the upmarket suburbs of Mission Bay and St Heliers in Central Auckland.	Ellsworth Land is the region south of the Peninsula, bounded by the Bellingshausen Sea.	The southern peninsula of the Auckland isthmus is the land of the Ellerslie, which is surrounded by the Bellingshausen Sea.
Hindi: अंतर्देशीय जलमार्ग आनेवाली छुट्टियों के लिए एक अच्छा विषय हो सकता है। = English: Inland waterways can be a good theme to base a holiday around.	In principle the Tibetan Buddhism is very simple. It consists of Kundalini Yoga, meditation and the path of all-embracing love.	Theoretically, Tibetan Buddhism is very simple. It includes Kundalini yoga, meditation and the path of embracing all with love.
Hindi: यात्रियों को उन जानवरों और कीड़ों का सामना करना पड़ता है, जिससे वे अपने गृह क्षेत्र में परिचित नहीं होते हैं. = English: Travellers may encounter animal pests that they are not familiar with in their home regions.	Many observed rhythms in physiology and behavior often crucially depend on the presence of endogenous cycles and their production through biological clocks.	It is often observed that endogenous cycles are present in the physical and behavioural physiology of many organisms, often depending on and mediated by biological clocks.
Hindi: ऑस्ट्रेलिया के लोगों के लिए, 'फ्लैट व्हाइट' कॉफी का विचार विदेशी है।शॉर्ट ब्लैक 'एस्प्रेसो' है, कैपेचीनो में क्रीम (झाग नहीं) भरा होता है, और चाय दूध के बिना परोसी जाती है। = English: For Australians, the idea of 'flat white' coffee is foreign. A short black is 'espresso', cappuccino comes heaped high with cream (not froth), and tea is served without milk.	In 1990, it was added to the list of world heritage sites in danger, due to the threat of desert sands.	In 1990, it was added to the World Heritage list of endangered sites due to the threat of desert sand.
Hindi: हर्शे और चेज़ ने अपने डीएनए को एक जीवाणु में डालने के लिए फेज या वायरस का इस्तेमाल किया. = English: Hershey and Chase used phages, or viruses, to implant their own DNA into a bacterium.	The French Revolution also inspired many other repressed working class people of other country's to began their own revolutions.	The French Revolution inspired many suppressed working classes in other countries to start their own revolutions.
Hindi: यह उपग्रह-आधारित प्रौद्योगिकी का उपयोग करता है, जो पुराने ज़मीनी-रडार-आधारित तकनीक के विपरीत है, जिससे हवाई यातायात नियंत्रकों को अधिक सटीकता के साथ विमान को चलाने और पायलटों को अधिक सटीक जानकारी देने में मदद मिलती है. = English: It uses satellite-based technology as opposed to older ground-radar-based technology to allow air traffic controllers to pinpoint aircraft with greater precision and give pilots more accurate information.	The idea of skiing is very old — cave paintings depicting skiers date back as far as 5000 BC!	The idea of skiing is very old - cave paintings show skiers as far back as 5000 BC.
Hindi: पुरुषों को दृढ़ता से नकारें और अपनी बात पर बेहिचक अड़ी रहें (सांस्कृतिक अंतरों के होने या नहीं होने से यह सही नहीं हो जाता!). = English: Be firm in turning down men, and don't be afraid to stand your ground (cultural differences or not, it doesn't make it ok!).	Even traditionally, though, not all Sámi have been involved in big scale reindeer husbandry, but lived from fishing, hunting and similar, having reindeer mostly as draft animals.	Traditionally, though, not all Semitic peoples have been involved in large-scale antelope herding, but have relied on fishing, hunting, and the like for their livelihoods, keeping the antelope more as draft animals.
Hindi: मीट्रिक प्रणाली के इस्तेमाल, निरपेक्षवाद से गणतंत्रवाद, राष्ट्रवाद में बदलाव और देश का भरोसा लोगों से है किसी एक शासक से नहीं, ऐसी बातों का बहुत ज़्यादा सामाजिक और राजनैतिक असर होता है. = English: There are a lot of social and political effects such as the use of metric system, a shift from absolutism to republicanism, nationalism and the belief the country belongs to the people not to one sole ruler.	Last month a presidential commission recommended the prior CEP's resignation as part of a package of measures to move the country towards new elections.	A presidential commission last month recommended that the country move forward to new elections as part of a package of measures to resolve the crisis, including the resignation of the former CEC.
Hindi: टॉमी ड्रीमर ने कहा “लूना पहली क्वीन ऑफ़ एक्सट्रीम थी. मेरी पहली मैनेजर. लूना की मृत्यु दो चाँद वाली मशहूर रात में हुई थी. वह रात उसकी तरह ही ख़ास थी. वह बेहद शक्तिशाली महिला थी.” = English: Tommy Dreamer said "Luna was the first Queen of Extreme. My first manager. Luna passed away on the night of two moons. Pretty unique just like her. Strong woman."	He built a WiFi door bell, he said.	He (Jem Simmonds) said, that he has made a Wi-Fi doorbell.
Hindi: मेजरकेन खाना, भूमध्य सागर में समान क्षेत्रों की तरह, रोटी, सब्जियों और मांस (विशेष रूप से सूअर का मांस) पर आधारित है, और जैतून के तेल का उपयोग करता है। = English: Majorcan cuisine, like that of similar zones in the Mediterranean, is based on bread, vegetables and meat (specially pork), and uses olive oil throughout.	A well rounded athlete, the tiger can climb (though not well), swim, leap great distances and pull with five times the force of a strong human.	A fully developed athlete, a tiger can climb (though not well), swim, jump long distances and pull a powerful human five times its own strength.
Hindi: इसलिए, यह माना जा रहा है कि नोटेशन को सिर्फ़ एक लेबल के रूप में जोड़ा गया था. = English: So, it is likely that the notation was added simply as a label.	Members of a subculture often signal their membership through a distinctive and symbolic use of style, which includes fashions, mannerisms, and argot.	A subculture member often indicates membership through a specific and symbolic use of style, including fashion, mannerisms, and a particular slang.
Hindi: पेनिनसुला के दक्षिणी क्षेत्र में एल्सवर्थ लैंड है जो बेल्लिंगशॉसेन समुद्र से घिरा हुआ है. = English: Ellsworth Land is the region south of the Peninsula, bounded by the Bellingshausen Sea.	At the beginning dress was heavily influenced by the Byzantine culture in the east.	The dress of the early period was influenced by the Byzantine culture.
Hindi: चूंकि अंतर जिला बसें अक्सर भरी होती हैं, इसलिए कुछ दिन पहले टिकट खरीदना उचित होता है. = English: As the inter-district buses are often full, it is advisable to purchase a ticket a few days in advance.	Martelly swore in a new Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) of nine members yesterday.	Martelly took the oath of office for a new interim election council (CEP) on Tuesday.
Hindi: स्वच्छंदतावाद के संदर्भ में, भूगोल ने व्यक्तियों को ढाला और समय के साथ-साथ उस भूगोल से जुड़े रीति-रिवाज और संस्कृति उत्पन्न हुई. समाज के स्थान के मुताबिक होने की वजह से ये लोग मनमाने ढंग से लगाए गए कानूनों से कहीं बेहतर थे. = English: In the context of Romanticism, the geography molded individuals, and over time customs and culture related to that geography arose, and these, being in harmony with the place of the society, were better than arbitrarily imposed laws.	Rolando Mendoza fired his M16 rifle at the tourists.	Rolando Mendoza fired at tourists with his M16 rifle.
Hindi: कई सामान्य प्रजातियों के साथ ही, यहाँ दुलर्भ जीव-जंतु जैसे कि यूरोपीय भूरा भालू, भेड़िया, ईगल, उल्लू, वनबिलाव, जंगली बिल्ली और कैपरकैलिली भी मिल सकते हैं. = English: Rare fauna such as the European brown bear, wolf, eagle, owl, lynx, wild cat and capercaillie can be found there, along with many more common species	Safaris are perhaps the greatest tourism draw in Africa and the highlight for many visitors.	Safari is probably Africa's largest tourist attraction and attracts many visitors.
Hindi: हाँ, सार्वजनिक परिवहन और अन्य कार्यालयों में भी स्पेनिश व्यापक रूप से इस्तेमाल की जाती है. = English: Yet, Spanish is also widely used in public transport and other facilities.	Travellers are strongly advised to be aware of any risk of severe weather affecting their area as they may affect any travel plans.	Passengers are strongly advised to be aware of any serious weather risks that may affect their area as they may affect any travel plans.
Hindi: जारी की गयी गति सीमाएं पहले की तुलना में काफी कम है -आमतौर पर यह 35-40 मील प्रति घंटा(56-60 किमी प्रति घंटा ) और उनके लिए सख्त नियम काफी जरूरी है = English: Posted speed limits are noticeably lower than in previous and subsequent sections — commonly 35-40 mph (56-64 km/h) — and strict obedience to them is even more important than otherwise.	The cities of Harappa and Mohenjo-daro had a flush toilet in almost every house, attached to a sophisticated sewage system.	Most houses in the Harappan and Mohenjodaro cities had a flush toilet connected to a sophisticated sewerage system.
Hindi: श्नाइडर ने अपनी मातृभूमि में एक USAF बेस से वीडियो लिंक के माध्यम से गवाही दी. = English: Schneider testified via videolink from a USAF base in his homeland.	It was to last for the next 40 years and would be fought for real, by proxy armies, on battlefields from Africa to Asia, in Afghanistan, Cuba and many other places.	It was supposed to last for 40 years and was supposed to be real, covert wars, from Africa to Asia, from Afghanistan to Cuba and other places.
Hindi: साउथ शेटलैंड, जिसकी खोज 1819 में हुई थी, पर कई देशों ने दावा किया है और वहाँ सबसे ज़्यादा बेस बनाए गए हैं, जिनमें से 2020 में सोलह बेस सक्रिय हैं. = English: South Shetland Islands, discovered in 1819, are claimed by several nations and have the most bases, with sixteen active in 2020.	Four skiers in the women's sitting group failed to finish their runs, and 45 of the 117 total skiers in the Giant Slalom failed to rank in the race.	The current women's group has four skiers failing to complete their run and the giant slalom has a total of 117 skiers of which 45 skiers fail to qualify for the race.
Hindi: इतिहासकारों ने उन मामलों पर संसाधनों को केंद्रित करने के लिए एफबीआई की पिछली नीतियों की आलोचना की है जो एजेंसी की सफलता की दर को बढ़ाने के इरादे से हल करना आसान है,विशेष रूप से कार चोरी के मामलेा। = English: Historians have criticized past FBI policies for focusing resources on cases which are easy to solve, especially stolen car cases, with the intent of boosting the agency's success rate.	In the 16th century Paraguay, formerly called "The Giant Province of the Indies", was born as a result of the encounter of Spanish conquerors with the native indigenous groups.	Paraguay, which was once called the "Great Province of the Indies", was born in the 16th century as a result of the clashes between the Spanish conquerors and the indigenous groups.
Hindi: उत्तर में यह क्षेत्र साहेल और दक्षिण और पश्चिम में अटलांटिक महासागर से घिरा है. = English: In the north the region is bounded by the Sahel, and in the south and west by the Atlantic Ocean.	It has been known for a long time that different types of brain damage, traumas, lesions, and tumours affect behaviour and cause changes in some mental functions.	It is well known that various kinds of brain injury, trauma, injury and tumour affect some mental behaviour and cause some mental changes.
Hindi: यह उन्हें शिकारियों से छिपने के लिए छोटे स्थानों की एक बहुत बड़ी श्रृंखला देता है। = English: This gives them a wider range of small places to hide from predators.	Today, Timbuktu is an impoverished town, although its reputation makes it a tourist attraction, and it has an airport.	Today, Timbuktu is a poor city, though its reputation is built on its tourist attractions, and it has an airport.
Hindi: पुल के नीचे वर्टिकल क्लीयरेंस 15 मीटर है। निर्माण अगस्त 2011 में पूरा हो गया था, यह मार्च 2017 तक यातायात के लिए नहीं खोला गया था। = English: The vertical clearance under the bridge is 15 meters. Construction was completed in August 2011, it didn't open to traffic until March 2017.	When returning home after living abroad, you've adapted to the new culture and lost some of your habits from your home culture.	When you return home after living abroad, you have adopted the new culture and lost many of your domestic habits.
Hindi: मानवों पर आश्रित सबसे ज़्यादा अनुकूलतम कीट खटमल के साथ पुरानी समानता से यह परिभाषा बनी है. = English: This term derives from ancient familiarity with Bed-bugs, which are insects highly adapted to parasitize humans.	As the inter-district buses are often full, it is advisable to purchase a ticket a few days in advance.	Since inter-district buses are often full, it is advisable to book tickets a few days in advance.
Hindi: एंटरटेनमेंट न्यूज़ वेबसाइट TMZ का मानना है कि फ़ोटोग्राफर ने अपना वाहन सेपुलवेडा बुलेवार्ड की दूसरी तरफ रोका था और सड़क पार करने और जारी रखने से पहले पुलिस स्टॉप की फ़ोटो लेने की कोशिश की. कैलिफोर्निया हाईवे पेट्रोल पुलिस अधिकारी ने ट्रैफिक स्टॉप का संचालन करते हुए उसे रोकने के लिए दो बार आदेश दिया. = English: Entertainment news website TMZ understands the photographer stopped his vehicle on the other side of Sepulveda Boulevard and attempted to take pictures of the police stop before crossing the road and continuing, prompting the California Highway Patrol police officer conducting the traffic stop to order him back across, twice.	There were no large forests in the land of Canaan, so wood was extremely expensive.	In the land of Canaan, there were no large forests, so wood was very expensive.
Hindi: हालाँकि, यह सच नहीं है. हालाँकि दस्तावेज़ के पीछे कुछ लिखा हुआ है, लेकिन यह कोई ख़ज़ाने का नक्शा नहीं है. = English: However, that is not true. Although there is something written on the back of the document, it is not a treasure map.	His teammate Fernando Alonso was in the lead for most of the race, but ended it right after his pit-stop, probably because a badly tucked right front wheel.	His team-mate Fernando Alonso was leading most of the race, but stopped it right after the pit stop, perhaps because the front wheel was badly worn out.
Hindi: महाराजा और महारानी के ख़िलाफ़ चीखते-चिल्लाते लोगों की भीड़ से घिरी एक गाड़ी में सफर करते हुए वे लोग पेरिस वापस आए. = English: In a carriage, they traveled back to Paris surrounded by a mob of people screaming and shouting threats against the King and Queen.	The researchers suggested that, even though this is the tail of a young dinosaur, the sample shows adult plumage and not a chick's down.	Researchers suggested that, even though it is a tail of a small dinosaur, the sample looks like the wing of an adult rather than a child.
Hindi: ट्रक चालक, जिसकी उम्र 64 साल है, दुर्घटना में घायल नहीं हुआ था. = English: The truck driver, who is aged 64, was not injured in the crash.	If crossing the Northern Baltic in winter, check the cabin location, as going through ice causes quite horrible noise for those most affected.	If you cross the northern Baltic in winter, you will have to check the cabin space, because those who are more affected will feel a terrible noise when they pass through the snow.
Hindi: 2010 के भूकंप के बाद हैती में पहुँचे संयुक्त राष्ट्र के शांति सैनिकों को उस बीमारी को फैलाने के लिए दोषी ठहराया जा रहा है जो सेना के शिविर के पास शुरू हुई थी. = English: UN peacekeepers, whom arrived in Haiti after the 2010 earthquake, are being blamed for the spread of the disease which started near the troop's encampment.	Efforts to search for the crash site are being met by bad weather and harsh terrain.	Efforts are being made to search the accident site in the bad weather and harsh terrain.
Hindi: पुलिस ने कहा कि शव लगभग एक दिन पुराना है. = English: Police said that the body appeared to have been there for about a day.	The satellite in space gets the call and then reflects it back down, almost instantly.	A satellite in space receives a call and then reflects it back down to earth at the same time.
Hindi: सभी दक्षिण अफ्रीकी राष्ट्रीय उद्यानों के साथ ही पार्क में दैनिक संरक्षण और प्रवेश के लिए शुल्क लगता हैं। = English: As with all South African National Parks, there are daily conservation and entry fees for the park.	The U.S. Corps of Engineers estimated that 6 inches of rainfall could breach the previously damaged levees.	The U.S. Corps of Engineers estimated that 6 inches of rain could break the already damaged dams.
Hindi: इरान में हवाई दुर्घटनाएँ सामान्य हैं, जिसके पास बरसों पुराने हवाई जहाज़ हैं जिनका सिविल और मिलिट्री ऑपरेशन्स में सही तरीके से मेनटेन नहीं किया गया. = English: Air accidents are common in Iran, which has an aging fleet that is poorly maintained both for civil and military operations.	Resembling a television remote, the controller uses two sensors placed near the user's television to triangulate its position in three-dimensional space.	The controller, which resembles a television remote, uses two sensors placed near the television to triangulate its position in three-dimensional space.
Hindi: न्यूरोबायोलॉजिकल डेटा संज्ञान की जाँच के लिए सैद्धांतिक दृष्टिकोण के लिए भौतिक प्रमाण देते है. इसलिए ये अनुसंधान के क्षेत्र को सीमित बनाते हैं और इसे कहीं ज़्यादा सटीक बनाते हैं. = English: Neurobiological data provide physical evidence for a theoretical approach to the investigation of cognition. Therefore it narrows the research area and makes it much more exact.	In many other cities of Italy and in the rest of the world, particularly in Poland, similar setups were made, which were viewed by a great number of people.	In many other cities of Italy and the rest of the world, especially Poland, such setups were created, which were seen by large numbers of people.
Hindi: मौजूद लोगों की संख्या इतनी बड़ी थी कि सेंट पीटर्स स्क्वायर में अंतिम संस्कार के लिए हर किसी के लिए पहुँच पाना मुमकिन नहीं था. = English: The number of people present was so large that it was not possible for everybody to gain access to the funeral in St. Peter's Square.	They are almost all sandy beaches with safe swimming, and most have shade provided by pohutukawa trees.	These are mostly sandy beaches where swimming is considered safe. Most of them have a canopy of casuarina trees.
Hindi: पुरुषों को दृढ़ता से नकारें और अपनी बात पर बेहिचक अड़ी रहें (सांस्कृतिक अंतरों के होने या नहीं होने से यह सही नहीं हो जाता!). = English: Be firm in turning down men, and don't be afraid to stand your ground (cultural differences or not, it doesn't make it ok!).	Generally speaking, there is no point in even looking for discounts for business or first-class seats on direct flights from A to B.	It is usually said that discounts are not given on direct flights for business or first class seats, no matter what.
Hindi: आप गोमा के आस-पास घूमने के लिए बोडा-बोडा (मोटरसाइकिल टैक्सी) ले सकते हैं. छोटी सैर के लिए आम तौर पर (स्थानीय) किराया करीब 500 कांगोलीज़ फ़्रैंक लगता है. = English: You can use boda-boda (motorcycle taxi) to get around Goma. The normal (local) price is ~500 Congolese Francs for the short ride.	Apia was founded in the 1850s and has been the official capital of Samoa since 1959.	Apia was founded in the 1850s and has been the official capital of Samoa since 1959.
Hindi: 1960 के दशक के दौरान, ब्रेझिन्स्की ने जॉन एफ कैनेडी के सलाहकार के तौर पर और उसके बाद लिंडन बी जॉनसन के प्रशासन के लिए काम किया. = English: Throughout 1960s, Brzezinski worked for John F. Kennedy as his advisor and then the Lyndon B. Johnson administration.	The tenth named storm of the Atlantic Hurricane season, Subtropical Storm Jerry, formed in the Atlantic Ocean today.	Atlantic hurricane season's tenth storm, subtropical storm Jerry, is forming today in the Atlantic Ocean.
Hindi: पुरुषों के स्टैंडिंग सुपर-जी में ऑस्ट्रेलिया के मिशेल गौरले ग्यारहवें स्थान पर रहे. चेक प्रतियोगी ओल्डरिच जेलिनेक पुरुषों के सिटिंग सुपर-जी में सोलहवें स्थान पर रहे. = English: Australia's Mitchell Gourley finished eleventh in the men's standing Super-G. Czech competitor Oldrich Jelinek finished sixteenth in the men's sitting Super-G.	During the struggle for independence organised by the Mau movement, a peaceful gathering in the town resulted in the killing of the paramount chief Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III.	The city was the scene of a peaceful meeting during the Mau movement, when the leader of the movement, the chief Tetuaua Tausi Sailele Malifa III, was assassinated.
Hindi: 1000 पाउंड से ज़्यादा वज़नी और करीब 17,500 मील प्रति घंटा की रफ़्तार से उड़ रहे दोनों सैटेलाइट धरती से 491 मील की ऊँचाई पर टकरा गए. = English: The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	According to Japan's nuclear agency, radioactive caesium and iodine has been identified at the plant.	Japan's nuclear agency said that radioactive cesium and iodine have been identified at the plant.
Hindi: यह बीमारी सूअरों के कारण होती है, जो बाद में मच्छरों के माध्यम से मनुष्यों में आती है। = English: The disease is carried by pigs, which then migrates to humans through mosquitos.	Turkey would also take over guarding captured ISIS fighters which, the statement said, European nations have refused to repatriate.	Turkey has started to capture and monitor ISIS fighters, the statement said, European countries have refused to return them.
Hindi: जब संघीय सरकार ने डेवोनपोर्ट, तस्मानिया में मर्सी अस्पताल का वित्तपोषण करने के लिए कदम उठाया, तब राज्य सरकार और कुछ संघीय सांसदों ने नवंबर तक बुलाए जाने वाले संघीय चुनाव की प्रस्तावना में इस कार्य की आलोचना की. = English: Ever since the Federal Government stepped in to take over funding of the Mersey hospital in Devonport, Tasmania, the state government and some federal MPs have criticised this act as a stunt in the prelude to the federal election to be called by November.	The local tap water is perfectly safe to drink, but bottled water is easy to find if you are fearful.	Local tap water is perfectly safe to drink, but if you are worried, bottled water is easily available.
Hindi: यह ब्रिटेन में कहीं और आम बात है लेकिन स्कॉटिश न्याय अलग तरीके से काम करता है और अदालतों ने तस्वीरों के प्रकाशन को संभावित नुक़सानदेह के रूप मे देखा हैं | = English: This is common practice elsewhere in the UK but Scottish justice works differently and courts have viewed publication of photos as potentially prejudicial.	It may also be beneficial for one to buy a Wild Card, which provides entry to either selections of parks in South Africa or all of the South African National Parks.	Buying a Wild Card can be beneficial as it allows you to see selected parks in South Africa or all the South African National Parks.
Hindi: वैज्ञानिकों का कहना है कि टकराव के कारण हुआ विस्फोट बड़े पैमाने पर हुआ था. = English: Scientists say the explosion caused by the collision was massive.	Several large television screens were installed in various places in Rome to let the people watch the ceremony.	Rome has set up several large television screens in different places so that people can watch the ceremony.
Hindi: उनकी दूसरी दौड़, विशाल स्लैलम, महिलाओं के समूह में 4: 41.30, 2: 11.60 मिनट के संयुक्त कार्यावधि के साथ पहले स्थान के फ़िनिशर ऑस्ट्रियन क्लाउडिया लोएश की तुलना में और 1: 09.02 मिनट हंगरी के नौवें स्थान के फ़िनिशर ग्नोगी दानी से दसवें स्थान पर धीमी गति से समाप्त हुई. = English: Her other race, the Giant Slalom, saw her finish in tenth in the women's sitting group with a combined run time of 4:41.30, 2:11.60 minutes slower than first place finisher Austrian Claudia Loesch and 1:09.02 minutes slower than the ninth place finisher Gyöngyi Dani of Hungary.	He was robbed by pirates, attacked in Tibet by a rabid dog, escaped marriage in Nepal and was arrested in India.	He was robbed by pirates, attacked by mad dogs in Tibet, eloped from his wedding in Nepal and was arrested in India.
Hindi: लेकिन उनकी खोज पर ध्यान दिए बिना, एस्किमो जनजाति उस समय पहले से ही वहाँ रह रही थी. = English: But regardless of his discovery, Eskimo tribes were already living there at the time.	Murray lost the first set in a tie break after both men held each and every serve in the set.	Set after set both men held serve, and Murray lost the tie-breaker in the first set.
Hindi: परिसर के किनारे ज़्यादातर इमारतें फिर से बनाई गई हैं ताकि पर्यटकों को बेहतर ढंग से पता चल सके कि वे मूल रूप में कैसी दिखाई देती थी. = English: Most of the buildings on the edges of the complex have been rebuilt in order to give tourists a better idea of how they originally appeared.	The tiger is in the same group (Genus Panthera) as lions, leopards, and jaguars. These four cats are the only ones who can roar.	Like tigers, leopards, and jaguars, lions are also members of the same genus (Panthera). Only four cats make the roar.
Hindi: यह उन्हें शिकारियों से छिपने के लिए छोटे स्थानों की एक बहुत बड़ी श्रृंखला देता है। = English: This gives them a wider range of small places to hide from predators.	But the consumer market on laptop computer will be radically varied and changed after ASUS was awarded in the 2007 Taiwan Sustainable Award by Executive Yuan of the Republic of China.	But the consumer market for laptops will be fundamentally diverse and will change after 2007 when the Chinese executive Yuan awarded ASUS the Taiwan Sustainability Award.
Hindi: एक बम गवर्नर जनरल के कार्यालय के बाहर फटा था. = English: One bomb exploded outside the governor general's office.	Italian is also the everyday language used by most of those who work in the state while Latin is often used in religious ceremonies.	It is a language that is used daily by most people who work in the state, while Latin is used in religious rituals.
Hindi: काम पर जाने के लिए अपनी गाड़ियों से छोटे शहरो को छोड़ देते हैं और दूसरों द्वारा पारित किया गया काम की स्थान है जो उन्होंने अभी छोड़ी है। = English: Every morning, people leave small country towns in cars to go their workplace and are passed by others whose work destination is the place they have just left.	Dr. Malar Balasubramanian, 29, was found in Blue Ash, Ohio, a suburb approximately 15 miles north of Cincinnati lying on the ground beside the road in a T-shirt and underwear in an apparently heavily medicated state.	Dr. Mallar Basusubramaniam, 29, was found lying on the side of the road in a suburb of Blue Ash, about 15 miles north of Cincinnati, Ohio, wearing a T-shirt and underwear and in a state of extreme intoxication.
Hindi: फिलीपींस के राजधानी मनीला में एक पूर्व फिलिपिनो पुलिसकर्मी ने उनकी बस को अपहरण करके हांगकांग के पर्यटकों को बंधक बना रखा है। = English: A former Filipino policeman has kept Hong Kong tourists hostage by hijacking their bus in Manila, the capital of the Philippines.	In 1683, Qing dynasty (1644-1912) forces take control of Taiwan’s western and northern coastal areas and declared Taiwan as a province of the Qing Empire in 1885.	In 1683, the Qing Dynasty (1644-1912) forcibly took control of the western and northern coastal areas of Taiwan and declared Taiwan a province of the empire in 1885.
Hindi: चर्च के परिसर में, कुछ कब्रों पर कबूतरों की संगमरमर से बनाई गयी दिलचस्प मूर्तियां हैं। = English: In the churchyard, there are interesting marble sculptures of doves over some tombs.	When all available resources are effectively used across the functional departments of an organization, creativity and ingenuity can transpire.	When all available resources are effectively utilized by functional departments of an organization, both creativity and simplicity become possible.
Hindi: यही सेना पर भी लागू होता है क्योंकि सेना की रैंकिंग वर्ण पर आधारित होने के बजाय अब योग्यता पर आधारित हैं। = English: Same goes for the military because instead of army rankings being based on class they were now based on cailaber.	Research in AI involves making machines to automate tasks that require intelligent behavior.	Research in AI involves creating machines that can automate tasks that require intelligent behavior.
Hindi: हालाँकि एआई में विज्ञान कथाओं का एक मज़बूत अर्थ होता है, लेकिन एआई कंप्यूटर विज्ञान की एक बहुत ही अहम शाखा बनाता है, जिसमें बर्ताव से निपटना, किसी मशीन में सीखना और बुद्धिमान अनुकूलन शामिल है. = English: Although AI has a strong connotation of science fiction, AI forms a very important branch of computer science, dealing with behavior, learning and intelligent adaptation in a machine.	While visiting the monasteries, women are required to wear skirts covering the knees and have their shoulders covered, too.	Women have to wear skirts to cover their knees when they visit temples and they have to cover their shoulders as well.
Hindi: हालांकि यह अक्सर केवल एक गलत रूढ़िवादी धारणा होती है, पेरिस में घुलने-मिलने का सबसे अच्छा तरीका अभी भी अपना सबसे अच्छा व्यवहार करना है, किसी ऐसे व्यक्ति की तरह अभिनय करना जो “बिएन एलेव” (अच्छी तरह से पला-बढ़ा) हो। यह घुलने-मिलने को काफी आसान बना देगा। = English: While this is often only an inaccurate stereotype, the best way to get along in Paris still is to be on your best behavior, acting like someone who is "bien élevé" (well brought up). It will make getting about considerably easier.	For some festivals, the vast majority of the attendants to music festivals decide to camp on site, and most attendants consider it a vital part of the experience.	Some festivals, like the music festival, attract most of the people who camp on the site of the festival, and most people consider it an important part of their experience.
Hindi: आख़िर, लीडर ही अपनी टीम की कामयाबी और नाकामी के लिए ज़िम्मेदार होता है. = English: After all, the leader is ultimately responsible for the success and failure of the team.	There were also toilets in ancient Egypt, Persia and China. In Roman civilization, toilets were sometimes part of public bath houses where men and women were together in mixed company.	Ancient Egypt, Persia and China had toilets. The Roman civilization had toilets that were part of the bath houses, which were used by both men and women in groups.
Hindi: जब संघीय सरकार ने डेवोनपोर्ट, तस्मानिया में मर्सी अस्पताल का वित्तपोषण करने के लिए कदम उठाया, तब राज्य सरकार और कुछ संघीय सांसदों ने नवंबर तक बुलाए जाने वाले संघीय चुनाव की प्रस्तावना में इस कार्य की आलोचना की. = English: Ever since the Federal Government stepped in to take over funding of the Mersey hospital in Devonport, Tasmania, the state government and some federal MPs have criticised this act as a stunt in the prelude to the federal election to be called by November.	It is nearly impossible to exchange Falklands currency outside of the islands, so exchange money prior to leaving the islands.	It is almost impossible to change the currency of the Falkland Islands outside the islands, so change money before leaving the islands.
Hindi: गैलापागोस में मनुष्य के आगमन के बाद से, कई स्तनधारी का आगमन हुआ है जिसमें बकरियाँ, घोड़े, गाय, चूहे, बिल्लियाँ और कुत्ते शामिल हैं. = English: Since the arrival of man to the Galapagos, many mammals have been introduced including goats, horses, cows, rats, cats and dogs.	Handicraft products might be defined as antiques, though they are younger than similar mass-produced goods.	Handmade products can be defined as antiques. However, they are less old than mass-produced goods.
Hindi: सफलता के मामले में, जर्मनी की राष्ट्रीय फुटबॉल टीम के बाद इटली की राष्ट्रीय फुटबॉल टीम आती है, ये फीफा वर्ल्ड कप 2006 के विजेता थे. = English: Italy's national football, along with German national football team is the second most successful team in the world and were the FIFA World Cup champions in 2006.	Severe weather is the generic term for any dangerous weather phenomenon with the potential to cause damage, serious social disruption, or loss of human life.	Severe weather is a class term for any hazardous weather event that is likely to cause damage, serious social disruption, or loss of human life.
Hindi: बड़े-बड़े बुलेवार्ड, ग्लास-फ्रंटेड इमारतों और आधुनिक शॉपिंग सेंटर पारंपरिक लाल टाइल वाली छतों से आच्छादित हैं, 18वीं शताब्दी के बाजार, और पुरानी मस्जिदें और चर्च हैं, हालांकि शहर में पारंपरिक तुर्की की तुलना में भूमध्यसागरीय यूरोप का माहौल अधिक है। = English: The broad boulevards, glass-fronted buildings and modern shopping centers are dotted with traditional red-tiled roofs, the 18th century market, and old mosques and churches, although the city has an atmosphere more of Mediterranean Europe than traditional Turkey.	34 per cent of those in the poll share this view, wanting Queen Elizabeth II to be Australia's last monarch.	Of those 34 percent of people who voted, shared the wish that they want Queen Elizabeth II to be the last queen of Australia.
Hindi: चीज़ों पर कुछ बनाकर या खरोंच कर इस जगह को नुक़सान न पहुँचाएँ. = English: Do not deface the site by marking or scratching graffiti into structures.	The ruling party, South West Africa People's Organisation (SWAPO), also retained a majority in the parliamentary elections.	The governing party South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO) won a majority in the parliamentary elections.
Hindi: यह समुद्र के नीचे पतला और ऊँचे क्षेत्रों के नीचे मोटा होता है। = English: It is thinner under the maria and thicker under the highlands.	Ever since the Federal Government stepped in to take over funding of the Mersey hospital in Devonport, Tasmania, the state government and some federal MPs have criticised this act as a stunt in the prelude to the federal election to be called by November.	When the federal government stepped in to fund the Mercy Hospital in Devonport, Tasmania, the state government and some federal MPs criticised the timing of the federal election called in November.
Hindi: 1980 के दशक के दौरान उन्होंने टैक्सी, चीयर्स, और द ट्रेसी उल्मैन शो जैसे शो में काम किया था. = English: During the 1980s he worked on shows such as Taxi, Cheers, and The Tracy Ullman Show.	During the Revolutionary War, the thirteen states first formed a weak central government—with the Congress being its only component—under the Articles of Confederation.	Under the Confederation's Article, during the revolutionary war, thirteen states formed a weak central government for the first time, with the Congress as its sole component.
Hindi: अधिकांश मठों में बिना तैयारी के आने वाली महिलाओं के लिए सिर पर लपेटने का कपडा उपलब्ध कराया जाता है, लेकिन अगर आप अपना, विशेष रूप से चमकीले रंग का कपड़ा लाते हैं, तो आपको प्रवेश द्वार पर साधु या नन से एक प्यारी सी मुस्कान मिलेगी। = English: Most of the monasteries do provide wraps for women who come unprepared, but if you bring your own, especially one with bright colors, you'll get a smile from the monk or nun at the entrance.	The announcement was made after Trump had a phone conversation with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.	Trump's phone call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan after the announcement.
Hindi: चांद की सतह चट्टानों और धूल से बनी है. चांद की बाहरी परत को क्रस्ट कहते हैं. = English: The surface of the Moon is made of rocks and dust. The outer layer of the Moon is called the crust.	Soon after the outbreak of hostilities, Britain initiated a naval blockade of Germany.	Britain immediately started the naval blockade of Germany after spreading enmity.
Hindi: फिलीपींस की विजय में अमेरिकी साम्राज्यवाद के युद्ध व्यय का भुगतान फिलिपिनो के लोगों ने खुद किया था. = English: The war expenditures of U.S. imperialism in the conquest of the Philippines were paid for by the Filipino people themselves.	Liggins followed in his father’s footsteps and entered a career in medicine.	Like his father, Lignins started his career in medicine.
Hindi: टूर्नामेंट के शीर्ष सीड्स दक्षिण अफ़्रीका ने सही नोट पर शुरू किया, जब उनके पास 5वीं वरीयता प्राप्त ज़ांबिया के ख़िलाफ़ 26 - 00 की आसान जीत थी. = English: Tournament top seeds South Africa started on the right note when they had a comfortable 26 - 00 win against 5th seeded Zambia.	Each year, dozens of visitors are injured because they didn't keep a proper distance. These animals are large, wild, and potentially dangerous, so give them their space.	Hundreds of visitors are injured every year because they do not maintain the proper distance. These animals are large, wild and perhaps dangerous too, so maintain a distance from them.
Hindi: वे अमेरिकी स्ट्रीट औपनिवेशिक शासन को करों का भुगतान करने के लिए मजबूर कर रहे थे, जो कि व्यय का एक बड़ा हिस्सा और फिल स्ट्रीट सरकार द्वारा वॉल स्ट्रीट बैंकिंग घरों के माध्यम से फिलीपीन सरकार के नाम पर लगाए गए बॉन्ड पर ब्याज को धोखा देने के लिए था। = English: They were compelled to pay taxes to the U.S. colonial regime to defray a major part of the expenditures and the interest on bonds floated in the name of the Philippine government through the Wall Street banking houses.	Airlines know well that there is a certain core group of flyers who are willing to pay top dollar for the privilege of getting somewhere fast and in comfort, and charge accordingly.	Airlines know well that there is a group of passengers who are prepared to pay a bit more for a bit more speed and convenience, and they charge accordingly.
Hindi: तीसरी शताब्दी ईसा पूर्व में मिस्रियों द्वारा निर्मित, ग्रेट पिरामिड मृत फिरौन का सम्मान करने के लिए निर्मित कई बड़ी पिरामिड संरचनाओं में से एक है। = English: Built by the Egyptians in the third century BCE, the Great Pyramid is one of many large pyramid structures built to honor dead Pharaoh.	The hospital has followed protocol for infection control, including separating the patient from others to prevent possible infection of others.	The hospital has followed infection control rules, which include separating a patient from others to prevent possible infection from others.
Hindi: इटैलियन भी रोज़ाना इस्तेमाल होने वाली भाषा है जिसे राज्य में काम करने वाले अधिकांश लोग उपयोग में लाते हैं, जबकि लेटिन का धार्मिक रस्मों में इस्तेमाल किया जाता है. = English: Italian is also the everyday language used by most of those who work in the state while Latin is often used in religious ceremonies.	Chambers had sued God for "widespread death, destruction and terrorization of millions upon millions of the Earth's inhabitants."	Chambers had “brought a charge of widespread death, destruction and terror against God for the millions of inhabitants of the earth.”
Hindi: एक सामान्य लोकप्रिय डिनर, विशेष रूप से गर्मी के मौसम में, पा एम्बे ओली है: ब्रेड के साथ ऑलिव ऑयल, टमाटर, और कोई भी उपलब्ध रुचिकर सामग्री जैसे पनीर, ट्यूना मछली आदि। = English: A simple popular dinner, especially during the summer, is the Pa amb Oli: Bread with olive oil, tomato, and any available condiments such as cheese, tunafish, etc.	If the country you will be visiting becomes subject to a travel advisory, your travel health insurance or your trip cancellation insurance may be affected.	If the country you are travelling to is subject to travel advice, your travel health insurance or your travel cancellation insurance may be affected.
Hindi: अलगाव और पुनर्संयोजन भिन्नता प्रत्येक पीढ़ी के साथ दो पूलों के बीच आगे-पीछे होती रहती है। = English: Segregation and recombination shuffle variation back and forth between the two pools with each generation.	The broad boulevards, glass-fronted buildings and modern shopping centers are dotted with traditional red-tiled roofs, the 18th century market, and old mosques and churches, although the city has an atmosphere more of Mediterranean Europe than traditional Turkey.	Large boulevards, glass-fronted buildings and modern shopping centres are covered with traditional red-tiled roofs, 18th-century markets, and old mosques and churches, although the city has a more Mediterranean European atmosphere than traditional Turkish.
Hindi: यह क्षेत्र पशु और पक्षी प्रजातियों की एक बहुत व्यापक किस्मों का आवास है। = English: The area is also home to an extremely wide variety of animal and bird species.	Researchers from Princeton University in the United States and Uppsala University in Sweden reported the new species evolved in just two generations, though this process had been believed to take much longer, due to breeding between an endemic Darwin finch, Geospiza fortes, and the immigrant cactus finch, Geospiza conirostris.	Researchers at Princeton University in the United States and Uppsala University in Sweden have found that the new species developed in just two generations, although a local Darwin finch, Geospiza fortis and an immigrant cactus finch, Geospiza conirostris, are said to have taken a long time to breed.
Hindi: चूंकि अंतर जिला बसें अक्सर भरी होती हैं, इसलिए कुछ दिन पहले टिकट खरीदना उचित होता है. = English: As the inter-district buses are often full, it is advisable to purchase a ticket a few days in advance.	It's worth half an hour to stroll about the intriguing village.	A half-hour walk in the village is not a waste of time.
Hindi: इसे काफ़ी पतला बनाया जा सकता है और दूसरी धातु पर लगाया जा सकता है. इसे इतना पतला बनाया जा सकता है कि इसे कभी-कभी “प्रकाशित पांडुलिपियाँ” नामक किताबों में हाथ से बनाए गए चित्रों को सजाने के लिए इस्तेमाल किया जाता था. = English: It can be made very thin, and stuck onto other metal. It can be made so thin that it was sometimes used to decorate the hand-painted pictures in books called "illuminated manuscripts".	With 17,000 islands to choose from, Indonesian food is an umbrella term covering a vast variety of regional cuisines found across the nation.	Of the 17,000 islands, Indonesian cuisine is a broad term that encompasses the various regional dishes found throughout the country.
Hindi: जब तक आप इस क्षेत्र में रहते हैं, तब तक आप आमतौर कभी भी पासपोर्ट नियंत्रण चौकियों से गुजरे बिना सीमाओं को पार कर सकते हैं। = English: As long as you stay in this zone, you can generally cross borders without going through passport control checkpoints again.	Barcelona's official languages are Catalan and Spanish. About a half prefer to speak Catalan, a vast majority understands it, and virtually everyone knows Spanish.	The official languages of Barcelona are Catalan and Spanish. Almost half of the people prefer to speak Catalan, a very large population understands it, and almost everyone knows Spanish.
Hindi: मेडागास्कर सबसे बड़ा अपना खुद का वन्यजीवन वाला महाद्वीप है. = English: Madagascar is by far the biggest, and a continent on its own when it comes to wildlife.	Famous singers across the country presented bhajans, or devotional songs, to Shri Shyam's feet.	Popular singers from all over the country sing bhajans or bhakti songs in front of the feet of Shri Shyam.
Hindi: एक ब्रिटिश क्रूज़र को छोड़कर, सभी जहाज़ डूब गए. करीब 200 अमेरिकी और जर्मन लोगों की मौत हो गई. = English: All the ships were sunk, except for one British cruiser. Nearly 200 American and German lives were lost.	Other subjects on the agenda in Bali include saving the world's remaining forests, and sharing technologies to help developing nations grow in less-polluting ways.	The other agenda items at the Bali conference include saving the remaining forests of the world, and exchanging technologies that would help developing countries move forward in a less polluting manner.
Hindi: गंभीर मौसम किसी भी खतरनाक मौसमी घटना के लिए वर्गीय शब्द है जिसमें नुकसान, गंभीर सामाजिक व्यवधान, या मानव जीवन की हानि की संभावना है। = English: Severe weather is the generic term for any dangerous weather phenomenon with the potential to cause damage, serious social disruption, or loss of human life.	However, they are not thought to have caused any damage to the shuttle.	Although they had not thought of any damage to the shuttle.
Hindi: किसी बाइनरी संख्या में दो में से एक ही मान हो सकता है, यानी 0 या 1, और इन संख्याओं को ही बाइनरी अंक - या कंप्यूटर की शब्दावली में बिट कहा जाता है. = English: A binary number can have only one of two values, i.e. 0 or 1, and these numbers are referred to as binary digits - or bits, to use computer jargon.	All these things and more highlight Ontario as what is considered quintessentially Canadian by outsiders.	All these things make Ontario more important, because foreigners identify themselves as Canadians.
Hindi: मक्का के उत्तर में स्थित पहाड़ों में से एक के शीर्ष पर स्थित गुफा दुनिया के बाकी हिस्सों से पूरी तरह कटी हुई है। = English: Resting on the top of one of the mountains north of Mecca, the cave is completely isolated from the rest of the world.	Hokuriku Electric Power Co. reported no effects from the earthquake and that the Number 1 and 2 reactors at its Shika nuclear power plant were shut down.	The Hokuriku Electric Power Company reported that there was no effect from the earthquake. It also said that the Shika nuclear power plant's reactors 1 and 2 were shut down.
Hindi: जापान की परमाणु एजेंसी के अनुसार, प्लांट में रेडियोधर्मी सीज़ियम और आयोडीन की पहचान की गई है. = English: According to Japan's nuclear agency, radioactive caesium and iodine has been identified at the plant.	You may also wish to consult the advice of governments other than your own, but their advice is designed for their citizens.	You can take advice from other countries' governments, but their advice is given keeping in mind their citizens.
Hindi: किया गया अधिकांश काम सैद्धांतिक था, लेकिन सैजिटेरियस गैलेक्सी से बने ऑब्ज़र्वेशन को सिम्युलेट करने के लिए प्रोग्राम को लिखा गया था. = English: The work done was mostly theoretical, but the program was written to simulate observations made of the Sagittarius galaxy.	Box jellyfish occur near beaches and near river estuaries from October to April north of 1770. They can occasionally be found outside these times.	Box jellyfish are found from October to April in the northern part of the coasts and river mouths. They are often found outside these months.
Hindi: अमेरिकी राष्ट्रपति जॉर्ज डब्ल्यू बुश ने घोषणा का स्वागत किया. = English: U.S. President George W. Bush welcomed the announcement.	Plants make oxygen which humans breathe, and they take in carbon-dioxide which humans exhale (that is, breathe out).	Plants make oxygen which is used by humans to breathe and they take in carbon-dioxide which humans breathe out (i.e. exhale).
Hindi: यह खोज पक्षियों में पंखों के विकास की पूरी जानकारी भी प्रदान करती है. = English: The find also grants insight into the evolution of feathers in birds.	U.S. President George W. Bush arrived in Singapore the morning of November 16, beginning a week-long tour of Asia.	US President George W Bush began a week-long Asia tour on November 16, arriving in Singapore in the morning.
Hindi: हू ने विकासशील देशों को “ पुराने तरीकों से प्रदूषण फैलाने से रोकने और बाद में सफाई करने के लिए प्रोत्साहित किया।” = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	Due to the long distance from the continent mammals were unable to make the journey making the giant tortoise the primary grazing animal in the Galapagos.	The long distance from the continent made mammals unable to travel, which made the giant tortoise the primary grazer on Galapagos.
Hindi: दिलचस्प बात यह है कि पेंसिलवेनिया वाइल्ड्स जैसे रास्ते के दूसरे कई हिस्सों के मुकाबले यहां मोबाइल फ़ोन सेवा ज़्यादा बेहतर है. = English: Curiously, though, mobile phone service is much stronger here than along many other stretches of the route, e.g. the Pennsylvania Wilds.	The Internet combines elements of both mass and interpersonal communication.	Internet, people and inter-personal communication, both elements of it.
Hindi: अगर आप ऐक्शन के नज़दीक रहना चाहते हैं तो आपको म्यूज़िक के नज़दीक वाली कैंपिंग साइट पर जल्दी से जल्दी पहुँचना होगा. = English: If you want to be close to the action you're going to have to get in early to get a camping site close to the music.	Combined with its relative inaccessibility, "Timbuktu" has come to be used as a metaphor for exotic, distant lands.	Its relative inaccessibility has made Timbuktu a metaphor for distant lands.
Hindi: हम फोस्टर केयर सिस्टम को इन बच्चों के लिए एक सुरक्षित क्षेत्र मानते हैं। = English: We perceive the Foster Care System to be a safety zone for these children.	All citizens of Vatican City are Roman Catholic.	All citizens of Vatican City are Roman Catholics.
Hindi: गीज़ा पठार, “गीज़ा नेक्रोपोलिस” या मृतकों की मिस्र की घाटी में कई पिरामिड (जिनमें से द ग्रेट पिरामिड सबसे बड़ा है), कई छोटी कब्रें, कई मंदिर और महान स्फिंक्स हैं. = English: The Giza Plateau, or "Giza Necropolis" in the Egyptian Valley of the Dead contains several pyramids (of which the great pyramid is the largest), several small tombs, several temples, and the great Sphinx.	Three more bombs exploded near government buildings in a period of two hours.	Two bombs exploded near government buildings in two hours.
Hindi: यह समुद्र के नीचे पतला और ऊँचे क्षेत्रों के नीचे मोटा होता है। = English: It is thinner under the maria and thicker under the highlands.	It also attacked anything that entered the water; even a giant dinosaur such as T. rex would be no match for it.	They would attack anything that went into the water, even the giant T. rex.
Hindi: हालाँकि, ड्राइवर के सिर में गंभीर चोटें आई थी. = English: However, the driver sustained serious injuries to the head.	Apia is the capital of Samoa. The town is on the island of Upolu and has a population of just under 40,000.	Apia is the capital of Samoa. It is located on the island of Upolu and has a population of less than 40,000.
Hindi: यह ऑरोरा बोरेलिस को देखने का एक अच्छा अवसर प्रदान करता है, क्योंकि आकाश में उस समय अंधकार सा ही रहेगा। = English: This offers a good opportunity to see the Aurora borealis, as the sky will be dark more or less around the clock.	In its early days, the show was featured solely at the long-running internet radio site TogiNet Radio, a site focused on talk radio.	In its early days, the show was only featured on the long-running internet radio site TogiNet Radio, a talk radio site focused on a site.
Hindi: मध्यपूर्व की गर्म जलवायु में घर उतना ज़रूरी नहीं था. = English: In the warm climate of the Middle East, the house was not so important.	Once the ancient city of Smyrna, it is now a modern, developed, and busy commercial center, set around a huge bay and surrounded by mountains.	Once an ancient city, Smyrna, is now a modern, developed and busy business centre, situated on a large gulf and surrounded by mountains on all sides.
Hindi: चूँकि उनकी शुरुआती दिनों में प्रकाश प्रदूषण आज की तरह की समस्या नहीं थी, वे आमतौर पर शहरों में या परिसरों में स्थित हैं, जहाँ आधुनिक समय में निर्मित जगहों की तुलना में पहुँचना आसान होता हैं। = English: As light pollution in their heyday was not the kind of problem it is today, they are usually located in cities or at campuses, easier to reach than those built in modern times.	Everyone participates in society and uses transportation systems. Almost everyone complains about transportation systems.	Everyone is connected to society and uses the transport system. Almost everyone complains about the transport system.
Hindi: एक दंपत्ति फैसला ले सकता है कि यह उनके या उनके बच्चे के हित में बिलकुल नहीं है कि एक दूसरा बच्चा किया जाए | = English: A couple may decide it is not in their best interest, or in the interest of their child, to raise a baby.	Over time, as the new population begins to adapt to their new environment, they start to look less and less like the other population.	Over time, as the new population adapts to the new environment, it too begins to ignore the other population.
Hindi: आम तौर पर वे खास तरह के खाने-पीने और मनोरंजन की व्यवस्था रखते हैं, ताकि उनके मेहमानों का मूड अच्छा रहे और वे वहीं पर बने रहें. = English: They usually have special food, drink and entertainment offers, to keep guests in a good mood, and keep them at the premise.	Other biorhythm-based options involve drinking lots of fluid (particularly water or tea, a known diuretic) prior to sleep, forcing one to get up to urinate.	Other bio-rad-based options include drinking a lot of liquid (especially water or tea, a common diuretic) before bed, forcing the person to urinate.
Hindi: इसे काफ़ी पतला बनाया जा सकता है और दूसरी धातु पर लगाया जा सकता है. इसे इतना पतला बनाया जा सकता है कि इसे कभी-कभी “प्रकाशित पांडुलिपियाँ” नामक किताबों में हाथ से बनाए गए चित्रों को सजाने के लिए इस्तेमाल किया जाता था. = English: It can be made very thin, and stuck onto other metal. It can be made so thin that it was sometimes used to decorate the hand-painted pictures in books called "illuminated manuscripts".	Tournament top seeds South Africa started on the right note when they had a comfortable 26 - 00 win against 5th seeded Zambia.	The tournament's top seeds South Africa started on the right note, when they had an easy 26 - 00 win over fifth seeded Zambia.
Hindi: ओहियो में अधिकारियों का कहना है कि एक डॉक्टर जो पिट्सबर्ग, पेंसिल्वेनिया में बच्चों के अस्पताल में काम करती थी उन पर बुधवार को अपनी कार की डिक्की में अपनी माँ के मृत पाए जाने के बाद संगीन हत्या के आरोप लगेंगे. = English: A doctor who worked at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania will be charged with aggravated murder after her mother was found dead in the trunk of her car Wednesday, authorities in Ohio say.	During the 1976 selections he advised Carter on foreign policy, then served as National Security Advisor (NSA) from 1977 to 1981, succeeding Henry Kissinger.	In 1976, he advised Carter on foreign policy during the selection process, then served as National Security Advisor (NSA) from 1977 to 1981 under Henry Kissinger.
Hindi: तथा, क्रांति के बाद व्यवसाय सभी पुरुष आवेदकों के लिए खुले थे जिसमें सबसे महत्त्वाकांक्षी और सफल होने वाले सफल हो सकते थे। = English: Also after the Revolution occupations were open to all male applicants allowing the most ambitious and successful to succeed.	Using ships to transport goods is by far the most efficient way to move large amounts of people and goods across oceans.	The use of ships for transporting goods is a very effective way of moving large amounts of people and goods from one end of the ocean to the other.
Hindi: डॉ. एहुड उर, नोवा स्कोटिया के हैलिफ़ैक्स में डलहौज़ी विश्वविद्यालय में चिकित्सा के प्रोफ़ेसर और कनाडाई डायबिटीज़ एसोसिएशन के नैदानिक ​​और वैज्ञानिक विभाग के अध्यक्ष ने आगाह किया कि शोध अभी भी अपने शुरुआती दिनों में है. = English: Dr. Ehud Ur, professor of medicine at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia and chair of the clinical and scientific division of the Canadian Diabetes Association cautioned that the research is still in its early days.	Coalition and Afghan troops moved into the area to secure the site and other coalition aircraft have been sent to assist.	Joint forces and Afghan soldiers group site to secure the area and the second joint forces aircraft sent to assist.
Hindi: ज़्यादा टैक्स वाले देशों में रहने वाले पर्यटक कभी-कभी खास तौर पर मादक पेय और तम्बाकू जैसे उत्पादों पर काफ़ी बचत कर सकते हैं. = English: Travellers bound for countries with heavy taxation can sometimes save a considerable amount of money, especially on products such as alcoholic beverages and tobacco.	After the dam was built in 1963, the seasonal floods that would spread sediment throughout the river were halted.	After the dam was built in 1963, the seasonal floods that spread silt throughout the entire river stopped.
Hindi: चैंबर्स ने “व्यापक मौत, विनाश और पृथ्वी के लाखों निवासी पर आतंक के लिए भगवान पर मुकदमा चलाया था।” = English: Chambers had sued God for "widespread death, destruction and terrorization of millions upon millions of the Earth's inhabitants."	The Amazon River is the second longest and the biggest river on Earth. It carries more than 8 times as much water as the second biggest river.	The Amazon River is the second longest and largest river in the world. It has 8 times more water than the second largest river.
Hindi: इसे तेज़ी से प्राप्त करने का एकमात्र तरीका इसे चेक किए गए सामान के रूप में भेजना था। एयरलाइन के नियम उन्हें बिना यात्री के सामान भेजने की अनुमति नहीं देंगे, और यहीं पर आप काम आएँगे। = English: The only way to get it through faster was to send it as checked luggage. Airline regulations will not allow them to send luggage without a passenger, which is where you come in.	Their disciplined defence, ball handling skills and excellent team work made them stand out and it was clear that this was the team to beat.	Their disciplined defence, their art of bowling and the good teamwork put them in a position to compete and now it was clear that this team would be a tough nut to crack.
Hindi: बाद में उन्हें कैम्ब्रिज में एडेनब्रुक के अस्पताल में स्थानांतरित कर दिया गया. = English: He was subsequently relocated to Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge.	In inland regions of Northern India and Pakistan, yogurt is commonly used in curries; in Southern India and some other coastal regions of the subcontinent, coconut milk is commonly used.	In northern India and Pakistan, curries are usually made with yogurt, whereas in southern India and other coastal areas of the subcontinent, coconut milk is used.
Hindi: कोई अतिरिक्त परिवहन नहीं लगाया जा रहा है और वेम्बली में ओवरग्राउंड ट्रेनें नहीं रुकेंगी, और ग्राउंड पर कार पार्किंग तथा पार्क और सवारी की सुविधाएँ उपलब्ध नहीं होंगी. = English: No extra transport is being put on and overground trains will not stop at Wembley, and car parking and park-and-ride facilities are unavailable at the ground.	These theories suggest that people have certain needs and/or desires which have been internalized as they mature to adulthood.	These principles suggest that people have some such needs and/ or desires that have become inherent in them as adults.
Hindi: यह वो समय था जब कॉन्स्टेंटिनोपल को हटाकर पेरिस को फैशन राजधानी का खिताब दिया गया था। = English: It was at this time that the transfer of the title of Fashion Capital from Constantinople to Paris was made.	Check that the bus you are thinking of taking goes into Hebron and not just to the nearby Jewish settlement of Kiryat Arba.	Make sure that the bus you are thinking of going by is not going to Hebron, but to the nearby Jewish settlements in the Krayat Arba area.
Hindi: आप पिरामिड को शो शुरू होने से पहले अंधेरे में शांति से देख सकते हैं. = English: You can see the pyramids in the dark and you can see them in silence before the show begins.	The females are usually closely related to each other, being a large family of sisters and daughters.	Because of the large family of sisters and daughters, the mothers are usually close to each other.
Hindi: उनके पैरों में पपड़ियाँ और पंजे हैं, वे अंडे देते हैं, और वे किसी टी-रेक्स की तरह अपने दो पीछे वाले पैरों पर चलते हैं. = English: They have feet with scales and claws, they lay eggs, and they walk on their two back legs like a T-Rex.	Casinos typically make many efforts to maximize time and money spent by guests. Windows and clocks are usually absent, and exits can be hard to find.	Casinos usually try to maximize the time and money guests spend by making many efforts. It usually has no windows and clocks, and finding a way out can be quite difficult.
Hindi: रोम में अलग-अलग जगहों पर कई बड़े टेलीविज़न स्क्रीन लगाए गए ताकि लोग समारोह देख सकें. = English: Several large television screens were installed in various places in Rome to let the people watch the ceremony.	The northern part or Sentinel Range has Antarctica's highest mountains, the Vinson Massif, peaking at 4892 m Mount Vinson.	The highest mountain in the northern part or the Antarctic range is the Vinson Massif and Mount Vinson, which has the highest peak of 4,892 meters.
Hindi: काम पर जाने के लिए अपनी गाड़ियों से छोटे शहरो को छोड़ देते हैं और दूसरों द्वारा पारित किया गया काम की स्थान है जो उन्होंने अभी छोड़ी है। = English: Every morning, people leave small country towns in cars to go their workplace and are passed by others whose work destination is the place they have just left.	Some patients might have contracted the bug in the hospital, Dr. Moll thinks, and at least two were hospital health workers.	Dr. Mall believes that some patients must have contracted the infection in the hospital, and at least two hospital health workers were among them.
Hindi: तिब्बती बौद्ध धर्म बुद्ध की शिक्षाओं पर आधारित है, लेकिन प्रेम के महायान मार्ग और भारतीय योग से बहुत सारी तकनीकों द्वारा इसे बढ़ाया गया. = English: The Tibetan Buddhism is based on the teachings of Buddha, but were extended by the mahayana path of love and by a lot of techniques from Indian Yoga.	Although wagonways merely consisted of parallel planks of wood, they allowed horses pulling them to achieve greater speeds and pull larger loads than on the slightly more rough roads of the day.	Although, the wagons were made of wood and had a uniform plank on the floor, the horses could pull them at a faster speed and could carry a heavier load on the slightly worse roads of those days.
Hindi: उस विशेष जहर के लिए विशेष प्राथमिक चिकित्सा निर्देशों के लिए लेबल को देखेंं। = English: Check the label for specific first aid instructions for that specific poison.	It is Martelly's fifth CEP in four years.	This is the fifth CEP of Martelli in four years.
Hindi: बहुत-दुर्व्यवहार और अक्सर उपहास करने वाला तीसरा नियम एक सरल दिशानिर्देश है जो एक छवि में क्रम का माप रखते हुए गतिशील बनाता है. = English: The much-abused and often-ridiculed rule of thirds is a simple guideline creating dynamism while keeping a measure of order in an image.	Duvall, who is married with two adult children, did not leave a big impression on Miller, to whom the story was related.	Dewall, who is married and has two adult children, has had little effect on Miller, the subject of the story.
Hindi: फिर, लक्खा सिंह ने भजन गायकी की कमान संभाली. = English: Then, Lakkha Singh took the lead in singing the bhajans.	The sometimes-violent protests were triggered by failure to hold elections, some due since 2011.	After 2011, sometimes due to the election being held, violent protests started.
Hindi: ओयापॉक रिवर ब्रिज एक केबल स्टे ब्रिज है। यह ओयापॉक नदी को ब्राज़ील के ओयापॉक के शहरों और फ़्रेंच गियाना के सेंट-जॉर्जेज डि ओयापॉक को जोड़ता है। = English: The Oyapock River Bridge is a cable-stayed bridge. It spans the Oyapock River to link the cities of Oiapoque in Brazil and Saint-Georges de l'Oyapock in French Guiana.	This means you can visit the historic city for a couple of full days while returning and sleeping on the ship at night.	This means that you can spend a few days in the historic city and return by ship at night.
Hindi: पुनर्निर्माण की कोशिश की स्पष्ट आलोचना वॉशिंगटन के कथित घनिष्ट लोगों को पुनर्निर्माण के ठेके दिए जाने पर केंद्रित रही है. = English: Liberal criticism of the reconstruction effort has focused on the awarding of reconstruction contracts to perceived Washington insiders.	The station's web site describes the show as "old school radio theater with a new and outrageous geeky spin!"	The station's website described the show as "a new and badly disorganized spin on old-time radio theater."
Hindi: ऐसी कोई वैश्विक परिभाषा नहीं है जिसके लिए निर्मित सामान एंटीक होते हैं. कुछ कर एजेंसियाँ 100 साल से पुराने सामान को एंटीक के तौर पर परिभाषित करती हैं. = English: There is no universal definition for which manufactured items are antiques. Some tax agencies define goods older than 100 years as antiques.	Science’s main goal is to figure out the way the world works through the scientific method. This method in fact guides most scientific research.	The main goal of science is to find out the way the world works through scientific methods. In fact, most scientific research is based on this method.
Hindi: अच्छी परिस्थितियों में आप चलने से कुछ हद तकअधिक दूरी तय कर पाएंगे - लेकिन केवल बहुत कम ही आपको तैयार पटरियों में भारी बैग के बिना क्रॉस कंट्री स्कीइंग की गति मिलेगी। = English: In good conditions you will be able to cover somewhat greater distances than walking – but only very seldom you will get the speeds of cross country skiing without a heavy backpack in groomed tracks.	USA Gymnastics and the USOC have the same goal — making the sport of gymnastics, and others, as safe as possible for athletes to follow their dreams in a safe, positive and empowered environment.	USA Gymnastics and USA Gymnastics share the same goal – to provide athletes with a safe, positive and empowering environment in which to pursue their dreams of gymnastics and other sports as safely as possible.
Hindi: बारहसिंगा खेती समी के लिए एक महत्वपूर्ण आजीविका है और इस व्यापार के इर्दगिर्द की संस्कृति अन्य व्यवसायों के लिए भी महत्वपूर्ण है। = English: Reindeer husbandry is an important livelihood among the Sámi and the culture surrounding the trade is important also for many with other professions.	An increasingly more popular option for those planning a gap-year is to travel and learn.	A more popular option for those who plan an inter-annual migration is to travel and learn.
Hindi: PALM परीक्षण में, ZMapp ने एक नियंत्रण के रूप में कार्य किया, जिसका अर्थ है कि वैज्ञानिकों ने इसे बेसलाइन के रूप में इस्तेमाल किया और इसके साथ तीन अन्य उपचारों की तुलना की. = English: In the PALM trial, ZMapp served as a control, meaning scientists used it as a baseline and compared the three other treatments to it.	Sometimes special pyramid shaped towers, called ziggurats, were built to be a part of the temples.	The special pyramidal towers (ziggurats) sometimes called ziggurat, were built as part of the temple.
Hindi: फील्ड ट्रिप्स किसी भी क्लासरूम का महत्वपूर्ण भाग होते हैं. टीचर अक्सर अपने छात्रों को ऐसी जगहों पर ले जाना पसंद करेगा , जहां बस ट्रिप का विकल्प नहीं होता है. = English: Field trips are a large part of any classroom. Quite often a teacher would love to take her students places to which a bus trip is not an option.	At Thursday's keynote presentation of the Tokyo Game Show, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata unveiled the controller design for the company's new Nintendo Revolution console.	On Thursday, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata unveiled the design of the controller for the company's Revolution console at the Tokyo Game Show.
Hindi: इंटरनेट, लोगों और अंतर-परस्पर संचार, दोनों के तत्वों को मिलाता है. = English: The Internet combines elements of both mass and interpersonal communication.	However, most signs are indicated only in Catalan because it is established by law as the first official language.	Although most signs are only indicated in Catalan, because it is the first official language of the law.
Hindi: मध्यावधि चुनाव में एक हफ्ते तक हारने के बाद, बुश ने लोगों को एशिया में व्यापार के विस्तार के बारे में बताया। = English: After a week of losses in the midterm election, Bush told an audience about the expansion of trade in Asia.	It is related to but usually not involving alpine style ski touring or mountaineering, the latter ones done in steep terrain and requiring much stiffer skis and boots.	This is related, but generally does not include alpine-style ski touring or mountaineering, which is done on level ground and requires very stiff skis and boots.
Hindi: 1000 पाउंड से ज़्यादा वज़नी और करीब 17,500 मील प्रति घंटा की रफ़्तार से उड़ रहे दोनों सैटेलाइट धरती से 491 मील की ऊँचाई पर टकरा गए. = English: The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	Books and magazines dealing with wilderness survival are common, but publications dealing with war zones are few.	Surviving publications in the forest are common, but publications dealing with war zones are rare.
Hindi: अन्य नामांकनों में बेस्ट पिक्चर, डायरेक्टर, सिनेमेटोग्राफ़ी, कॉस्ट्यूम डिज़ाइन, फ़िल्म-संपादन, मूल स्कोर, प्रोडक्शन डिज़ाइन, ध्वनि संपादन, ध्वनि मिश्रण और ओरिजनल स्क्रीनप्ले शामिल हैं. = English: The other nominations include Best Picture, Director, Cinematography, Costume Design, Film-editing, Original Score, Production Design, Sound Editing, Sound Mixing and Original Screenplay.	Alloys are basically a mixture of two or more metals. Don't forget that there are many elements on the periodic table.	A mixture of two or more metals is called a composite metal. Do not forget that there are many elements on the periodic table.
Hindi: गोमा, रवांडा के पास बिल्कुल पूर्व में कांगो लोकतांत्रिक गणराज्य का एक पर्यटन शहर है. = English: Goma is a tourist city of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the extreme east near Rwanda.	French electoral law rather strictly codifies the proceedings.	The French electoral law, which is very strict, converts proceedings into symbolic words.
Hindi: वे गुण जो किसी उप-संस्कृति को अलग बनाते हैं, जैसे कि भाषा, सौंदर्य, धर्म, राजनीति, यौन, भूगोल या कई सारे कारकों का मिश्रण हो सकते हैं. = English: The qualities that determine a subculture as distinct may be linguistic, aesthetic, religious, political, sexual, geographical, or a combination of factors.	Travel agents often have deals with specific hotels, although you may find it possible to book other forms of accommodation, like camping grounds, through a travel agent.	Travel agents often have special deals with certain hotels, although you can book other accommodation options such as camping grounds through a travel agent.
Hindi: एक ब्रिटिश क्रूज़र को छोड़कर, सभी जहाज़ डूब गए. करीब 200 अमेरिकी और जर्मन लोगों की मौत हो गई. = English: All the ships were sunk, except for one British cruiser. Nearly 200 American and German lives were lost.	108 plates of Chhappan Bhog (in Hinduism, 56 different edible items, like, sweets, fruits, nuts, dishes etc. which are offered to deity) were served to Baba Shyam.	Lord Shyam was offered 108 plates of Panchamrut (Hindu religion, 56 different foods, such as sweets, fruits, nuts, dishes, etc. which are offered to the deity)
Hindi: प्रकृतिवादियों और दार्शनिकों ने शास्त्रीय ग्रंथों पर और विशेष रूप से लैटिन में लिखे बाइबिल पर ध्यान दिया। = English: Naturalists and philosophers focused on classical texts and, in particular, on the Bible in Latin.	Cancellation policies vary, but as of late March most coronavirus-based cancellation policies don't extend to July 2020, when the Olympics had been scheduled.	Cancellation policies may differ, but most policies do not extend beyond the end of March 2020, when the coronavirus was scheduled to be held.
Hindi: पानी को शुद्ध करने के अनेक तरीके हैं, इसमें कुछ विशिष्ट खतरों को कम करने के लिये कारगर है। = English: There are different ways of purifying water, some more effective against specific threats.	France is the seventh country in the European Union to suffer this virus; following Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Greece and Italy.	Australia, Germany, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Greece and Italy are the latest European Union countries to be hit by the virus.
Hindi: रिंग ने अपनी प्रतिस्पर्धी कंपनी ADT कॉर्पोरेशन के साथ एक मुकदमा निपटाया है. = English: Ring also settled a lawsuit with competing security company, the ADT Corporation.	Most of the buildings on the edges of the complex have been rebuilt in order to give tourists a better idea of how they originally appeared.	Most of the buildings on the edge of the campus have been rebuilt to give tourists a better idea of what they originally looked like.
Hindi: जल्द ही, दंगा संबंधी उपकरणों से लैस अधिकारियों ने अहाते में प्रवेश किया और कैदियों को आंसू गैस की मदद से काबू में कर लिया। = English: Soon, officers equipped with riot gear entered the yard and cornered the inmates with tear gas.	Uka's weapon failed whilst pointed at a fifth man's head. Schneider has ongoing pain, blindness in one eye, a missing section of skull and a face rebuilt from titanium.	His weapon failed when the fifth person’s head was targeted. Schnieder has pain, one eye blindness, a missing part of the skull and a titanium face rebuilt.
Hindi: हालाँकि, जंगल का अर्थ केवल मैंग्रोव दलदल नहीं हैं - वे कुछ अंतिम शक्तिशाली जंगलों में से हैं, जो कभी गंगा पठार को कवर करते थे। = English: The forests aren't just mangrove swamps though — they include some of the last remaining stands of the mighty jungles which once covered the Gangetic plain.	The Amazon is also the widest river on Earth, at times six miles wide.	The Amazon is the widest river in the world, sometimes as wide as six miles.
Hindi: यह सिद्धांत बताता है कि आकाशगंगा के आसपास का सबसे गहरा काला पदार्थ प्रभामंडल के रूप में स्थित होता है और यह कई छोटे-छोटे कणों से बना होता है. = English: This theory says that most dark matter around a galaxy is located around a galaxy in a kind of halo, and is made of lots of small particles.	This will allow players to control actions and movements in video games by moving the device through the air.	This device will allow players to control their action and movement by moving it in the air.
Hindi: टीम जिस प्रभाव के तलाश में थी वह आकाशगंगा के डार्क मैटर और मिल्की वे के डार्क मैटर के बीच ज्वारीय बलों के कारण से होता होगा. = English: The effect the team was looking for would be caused by tidal forces between the galaxy's dark matter and the Milky Way's dark matter.	Moreover, failure to do so has serious consequences: growth depression, malnutrition, and ultimately death.	In addition, failing to do so has serious consequences: depression, malnutrition and ultimately death.
Hindi: तमाकी ड्राइव समुद्री तट वाटेमाटा हार्बर पर, सेंट्रल ऑकलैंड में मिशन बे और सेंट हेलियर्स के महंगे उपनगरों में मौजूद हैं. = English: Tamaki Drive beaches are on the Waitemata Harbour, in the upmarket suburbs of Mission Bay and St Heliers in Central Auckland.	In particular, it is claimed that one can detect whether a person is lying by interpreting micro-expressions correctly.	It is claimed that it can be used to accurately interpret a person's micro-expressions to determine whether they are lying or not.
Hindi: एक रिपोर्ट मे बताया गया है कि इस क्षेत्र 9400 घर पानी की कमी से जूझ रहे है और लगभग 100 बिजली की कमी से । = English: It is reported that some 9400 homes in the region are without water and approximately 100 without electricity.	At one point a member of the mob waved the head of a royal guard killed at Versailles in front of the terrified Queen.	At one point, a person in the crowd even grabbed the head of the dead royal bodyguard and shook it in front of the terrified Queen.
Hindi: तकनीकी निर्धारण की ज़्यादातर व्याख्याएँ दो सामान्य विचारों के बारे में बताती हैं: तकनीकी विकास पर सांस्कृतिक या राजनीतिक असर का कोई भी प्रभाव नहीं पड़ता है और परिणामस्वरूप सामाजिक रूप से अनुकूलित होने के बजाय वह तकनीक निहित समाजों को “प्रभावित” करती है. = English: Most interpretations of technological determinism share two general ideas: that the development of technology itself follows a path largely beyond cultural or political influence, and that technology in turn has "effects" on societies that are inherent, rather than socially conditioned.	Current senator and Argentine First Lady Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner announced her presidential candidacy yesterday evening in La Plata, a city 50 kilometers (31 miles) away from Buenos Aires.	Current Senator and first lady Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner announced her presidential candidacy on Friday evening from the city of La Plata, 50 kilometers (31 miles) from the capital, Buenos Aires.
Hindi: हम पक्के तौर पर नहीं जानते हैं, लेकिन इसकी कांटेदार जीभ हो सकती है. इसके आहार में कछुए, बड़ी मछली, दूसरे मोसासॉर शामिल थे और ये एक नरभक्षी भी हो सकता है. = English: We don't know for sure, but it may have had a forked tongue. Its diet included turtles, large fish, other mosasaurs, and it may even have been a cannibal.	Negotiators tried to rectify the situation, but the prisoners' demands are not clear.	Talks between the prisoners and the authorities have failed to resolve the situation, but the demands of the prisoners are unclear.
Hindi: यह बहुत समय से ज्ञात है कि विभिन्न प्रकार के मस्तिष्क घाव, ट्रॉमा, चोट और ट्यूमर कुछ मानसिक व्यवहार को प्रभावित करते हैं और कुछ मानसिक कार्यों में परिवर्तन का कारण बनते हैं. = English: It has been known for a long time that different types of brain damage, traumas, lesions, and tumours affect behaviour and cause changes in some mental functions.	Yet, Spanish is also widely used in public transport and other facilities.	Yes, Spanish is widely used in public transport and other offices as well.
Hindi: शार्कों का अस्तित्व है, हालाँकि वे शायद ही कभी मनुष्यों पर हमला करते हैं। अधिकांश शार्क मनुष्यों से डरते हैं और तैर कर दूर चले जाते हैं। = English: Sharks do exist, however they rarely attack humans. Most sharks are scared of humans and would swim away.	The Spaniards started the colonization period which lasted for three centuries.	The Spanish people started the colonial era, which lasted for three centuries.
Hindi: एक कोर्स आम तौर पर 2 से 5 दिनों का होगा और उसमें भूमिका निभाना, बहुत सारा प्राथमिक उपचार और कभी-कभी हथियारों का प्रशिक्षण भी शामिल होगा. = English: A course will normally be from 2-5 days and will involve role play, a lot of first aid and sometimes weapons training.	Hydrogen ions are protons that had their electrons stripped off them (since Hydrogen atoms consist of one proton and one electron).	Hydrogen ions are the protons that have lost their electrons (because hydrogen atoms are made up of one proton and one electron).
Hindi: मारियाना में भूकंप का झटका स्थानीय समयानुसार सुबह 07:19 बजे (09:19 बजे जीएमटी शुक्रवार) आया। = English: The eathquake struck Mariana at 07:19 a.m. local time (09:19 p.m. GMT Friday).	All the ships were sunk, except for one British cruiser. Nearly 200 American and German lives were lost.	All the ships except a British cruiser sank. Nearly 200 American and German people died.
Hindi: वैटिकन सिटी अपने कानूनी और आधिकारिक संचार में इतालवी का उपयोग करता है। = English: Vatican City uses Italian in its legislation and official communications.	The High Middle Ages were preceded by the Early Middle Ages and followed by the Late Middle Ages, which by convention ends around 1500.	The High Middle Ages began before the Early Middle Ages and were followed by the Modern Middle Ages, which ended around 1500.
Hindi: 78 सुझावों में से सबसे पहला सुझाव यह है कि शत्रुतापूर्ण हस्तक्षेपों के खिलाफ इराक की सीमाओं को सुरक्षित करने और अपने पड़ोसियों के साथ कूटनीतिक संबंधों को फिर से बनाने के लिए, ये साल खत्म होने से पहले कोई नई राजनयिक पहल की जानी चाहिए. = English: First among its 78 recommendations is that a new diplomatic initiative should be taken before the end of this year to secure Iraq’s borders against hostile interventions and to re-establish diplomatic relations with its neighbors.	The movie, featuring Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone, received nominations in all major categories.	The film starring Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone has been nominated for all major categories.
Hindi: कई सामान्य प्रारूप (उदाहरण के लिए, प्रारूप का APS परिवार) इस अभिमुखता अनुपात के लगभग बराबर या उसके आस-पास हैं. = English: Many common formats (APS family of formats, for example) are equal to or closely approximate this aspect ratio.	Professor Pamela Ferguson of the University of Dundee notes "journalists do seem to be walking a dangerous line if publishing photos etc of suspects."	Professor Pamela Ferguson of the University of Dundee writes, “If suspects’ photographs are published, journalists feel they are walking a dangerous path”.
Hindi: रॉस्बी संख्या जितनी छोटी होगी, चुंबकीय उत्क्रमण के संबंध में तारा उतना ही कम सक्रिय होगा. = English: The smaller the Rossby number, the less active the star with respect to magnetic reversals.	Tokyo will be the only Asian city to have hosted two summer Olympics, having hosted the games in 1964.	Tokyo, which hosted the Games in 1964, will be the only Asian city to host two Summer Games.
Hindi: लिगिंन्स ने अपने पिता की तरह चिकित्सा के क्षेत्र में अपने कैरियर की शुरूआत की. = English: Liggins followed in his father’s footsteps and entered a career in medicine.	Due to the underwater topology the return flow is concentrated at a few deeper sections, and a fast current to deep water may form there.	The underwater topology causes some deep sections to have a concentrated return flow and from here a strong flow can occur in the deep water.
Hindi: दो घंटों में सरकारी इमारतों के पास दो बम विस्फोट हुए. = English: Three more bombs exploded near government buildings in a period of two hours.	These relationships help in planning, design, and operations of roadway facilities.	This relationship helps in planning, designing and operating roadways facilities.
Hindi: सावधान रहें कि कपड़े को बहुत गर्म न होने दें (जो सिकुड़न का कारण बन सकता है, या बहुत गरम होने पर, जल सकता है)। = English: Be careful not to allow fabric to become too hot (which can cause shrinkage, or in extreme cases, scorch).	The area is also home to an extremely wide variety of animal and bird species.	This area is home to a wide variety of animal and bird species.
Hindi: जिस सड़क पर दुर्घटना हुई उसे कुछ समय के लिए बंद कर दिया गया था, जबकि आपाताकालीन सेवाओं ने ड्राइवर को लाल रंग की Audi TT से निकाल दिया था. = English: The road where the crash happened was temporarily closed while emergency services freed the driver from the red Audi TT.	Finland is a great boating destination. The "Land of a thousand lakes" has thousands of islands too, in the lakes and in the coastal archipelagos.	Finland is a great place for a boat trip. “One thousand lakes land” has thousands of islands, which are lakes and coastal island groups.
Hindi: मिश्रधातु मूल रूप से दो या अधिक धातुओं का मिश्रण होते हैं। यह न भूलें कि आवर्त सारणी पर कई तत्व हैं। = English: Alloys are basically a mixture of two or more metals. Don't forget that there are many elements on the periodic table.	The National Hurricane Center (NHC) says that at this point Jerry poses no threat to land.	National Hurricane Center (NHC) says that at this time Jerry is not a threat to land.
Hindi: हालाँकि, जंगल का अर्थ केवल मैंग्रोव दलदल नहीं हैं - वे कुछ अंतिम शक्तिशाली जंगलों में से हैं, जो कभी गंगा पठार को कवर करते थे। = English: The forests aren't just mangrove swamps though — they include some of the last remaining stands of the mighty jungles which once covered the Gangetic plain.	As a result, two fish species have become extinct, and two others have become endangered, including the humpback chub.	The reason why two fish species have become extinct and two others are endangered, including the humpback chub.
Hindi: इस प्रारूप (सबसे सरल पूर्ण-संख्या अनुपात प्राप्त करने के लिए बारह से भाग देना) के अभिमुखता अनुपात को इसलिए 3:2 कहा जाता है। = English: The aspect ratio of this format (dividing by twelve to obtain the simplest whole-number ratio) is therefore said to be 3:2.	Blogging is a tool that inspires collaboration, and encourages students to extend learning well beyond the traditional school day.	Blogging is a tool that encourages collaboration, and encourages students to learn better than traditional school days.
Hindi: जबकि एक प्रायोगिक वैक्सीन इबोला से मृत्यु दर में कमी हो सकती है, अब तक, कोई भी ड्रग्स स्पष्ट रूप से संक्रमण का इलाज करने के लिए प्रमाणितनहीं हुआ है. = English: While one experimental vaccine appears able to reduce Ebola mortality, up until now, no drugs have been clearly demonstrated suitable for treating existing infection.	"They are cooler than the surrounding surface in the day and warmer at night.	“They are warmer than the surrounding surfaces during the day and cooler at night.”
Hindi: स्कैफ़ोल्डिंग सीखने की एक विधि नहीं है, बल्कि ऐसे लोगों को मददगार होती है जो किसी नई चीज़ को सीख रहे हों जैसे नया कंप्यूटर प्रोग्राम चलना या एक नया प्रोजेक्ट शुरू करना. = English: Scaffolding is not a method of learning but rather an aid that provides support to individuals whom are undergoing a new learning experience such as using a new computer program or beginning a new project.	“Personal involvement” and “continuing relationships” were also identified as new motivation aspects by Eighmey and McCord (1998) when they investigated audience reactions to websites.	When Amy and MacDonald (1998) examined the responses of viewers on websites, they identified “private participation” and “continuing relationship” as new motivational factors.
Hindi: अटलांटिक तूफ़ान मौसम का दसवाँ तूफ़ान, उपोष्णकटिबंधीय तूफ़ान जेरी, आज अटलांटिक महासागर में बना है. = English: The tenth named storm of the Atlantic Hurricane season, Subtropical Storm Jerry, formed in the Atlantic Ocean today.	This not only confirms that at least some dinosaurs had feathers, a theory already widespread, but provides details fossils generally cannot, such as color and three-dimensional arrangement.	This not only confirms that at least some dinosaurs had feathers, a theory already in circulation, but also provides information that fossils usually cannot provide, such as color and three-dimensional arrangement.
Hindi: जिसके परिणामस्वरूप, मंच पर कलाकार गांजे भरी सिगरटें पीते हैं और ये थिएटर खुद दर्शकों को भी इसमें साथ शामिल होने के लिए प्रेरित करते हैं. = English: As a result, the performers smoke cannabis joints on stage, and the theatre itself is encouraging the audience to join in.	Now widely available throughout the archipelago, Javanese cuisine features an array of simply seasoned dishes, the predominant flavorings the Javanese favor being peanuts, chillies, sugar (especially Javanese coconut sugar) and various aromatic spices.	Javanese cuisine is now widely available throughout the archipelago, with a characteristic feature of traditional dishes, Javanese cuisine has a major taste of peanuts, chili, sugar (especially coconut sugar from Java) and various aromatic spices.
Hindi: गोद लेने की प्रक्रिया में, जन्म देने वाले माता-पिता अपने अभिभावकीय अधिकार ख़त्म कर देते हैं ताकि कोई दूसरा जोड़ा बच्चे का अभिभावक बन सके. = English: In an adoption, the birth parents terminate their parental rights so that another couple may parent the child.	Machu Picchu consist of three main structures, namely Intihuatana, the Temple of the Sun, and the Room of the Three Windows.	Machu Picchu has three main structures, which are the Intihuatana, the Sun Temple, and the Three Windows Room.
Hindi: पहाड़ी ढलान वाले बर्फ के खेल, जिसमें स्कीइंग और स्नोबोर्डिंग शामिल हैं, लोकप्रिय खेल हैं जिनमें बर्फ से ढके इलाकों में स्की या आपके पैरों से जुड़े स्नोबोर्ड से फिसलना शामिल है। = English: Downhill snowsports, which include skiing and snowboarding, are popular sports involving sliding down snow-covered terrain with skis or a snowboard attached to your feet.	The East African Islands are in the Indian Ocean off the eastern coast of Africa.	East African islands, off the east coast of Africa in the Indian Ocean.
Hindi: बाबा श्याम को छप्पन भोग (हिंदू धर्म में, 56 अलग-अलग खाद्य पदार्थ, जैसे, मिठाई, फल, मेवा, व्यंजन आदि जो देवता को चढ़ाए जाते हैं) की 108 थाली परोसी गईं. = English: 108 plates of Chhappan Bhog (in Hinduism, 56 different edible items, like, sweets, fruits, nuts, dishes etc. which are offered to deity) were served to Baba Shyam.	Downhill snowsports, which include skiing and snowboarding, are popular sports involving sliding down snow-covered terrain with skis or a snowboard attached to your feet.	Sliding down a snowy mountain slope, which includes skiing and snowboarding, is a popular sport in which you slide down a snowy area on skis or a snowboard attached to your feet.
Hindi: आजकल उपयोग किए जाने वाले सभी कंप्यूटर, जानकारी के हेरफेर पर आधारित हैं इन्हें बाइनरी नंबर के रूप में कोड किया गया है. = English: Virtually all computers in use today are based on the manipulation of information which is coded in the form of binary numbers.	The two compounds react with one another to form crystals that may block kidney function, researchers at the university said.	University researchers said two compounds can form crystals that can block kidney function.
Hindi: एक दिन में केवल अठारह मैडल उपलब्ध होने के कारण, कई देश मैडल पोडियम पर चढ़ने में विफल रहे. = English: With only eighteen medals available a day, a number of countries have failed to make the medal podium.	The qualities that determine a subculture as distinct may be linguistic, aesthetic, religious, political, sexual, geographical, or a combination of factors.	The qualities that make a subculture different, such as language, beauty, religion, politics, sexuality, geography or a combination of factors.
Hindi: कुछ अणुओं में अस्थिर केंद्रक होता है, जिसका मतलब यह है कि उनमें थोड़े या बिना किसी झटके से टूटने की प्रवृत्ति होती है, = English: Some atoms have unstable nuclei which means that they tend to break apart with little or no nudging.	They include the Netherlands, with Anna Jochemsen finishing ninth in the women's standing class in the Super-G yesterday, and Finland with Katja Saarinen finishing tenth in the same event.	They were part of the Netherlands team, which finished ninth in the women's standing class with Anna Jochemsen and tenth with Katija Siranen in the same competition.
Hindi: यह नॉर्वे, स्वीडन और न्यूजीलैंड द्वारा मेल खाता है, लेकिन अन्यथा काफी अनोखा है (जैसे नैदरलैंड्स में यह आंकड़ा एक से चालीस है)। = English: This is matched by Norway, Sweden and New Zealand, but otherwise quite unique (e.g. in the Netherlands the figure is one to forty).	Pre-modern observatories are usually obsolete today, and remain as museums, or sites of education.	Modern observatories are nowadays usually old and are kept as museums or educational places.
Hindi: खेल सुबह 10:00 बजे बहुत बढ़िया मौसम के साथ शुरू हुआ और सुबह-सुबह की रिमझिम फुहारें, जो जल्दी ही ख़त्म हो गई थीं, के अलावा यह 7वे रग्बी के लिए शानदार दिन था. = English: The games kicked off at 10:00am with great weather and apart from mid morning drizzle which quickly cleared up, it was a perfect day for 7's rugby.	USA Gymnastics supports the United States Olympic Committee's letter and accepts the absolute need of the Olympic family to promote a safe environment for all of our athletes.	USA Gymnastics, the United States Olympic Committee letter, supports. In addition, all athletes to provide a safe environment, Olympic family to accept the importance of the importance.
Hindi: हालांकि तीन लोग घर के अन्दर थे फिर भी जब कार टकराई तब किसी को भी चोट नहीं आई। = English: Although three people were inside the house when the car impacted it, none of them were hurt.	Pre-operative transgender people should not expect to pass through the scanners with their privacy and dignity intact.	Pre-op transgender people should not expect to be able to pass through scanners without compromising their privacy and dignity.
Hindi: हू ने विकासशील देशों को “ पुराने तरीकों से प्रदूषण फैलाने से रोकने और बाद में सफाई करने के लिए प्रोत्साहित किया।” = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	Inland waterways can be a good theme to base a holiday around.	Inland waterways could be a good topic for coming holidays.
Hindi: बाघ की दहाड़ किसी शेर की तेज़ आवाज़ वाली दहाड़ की तरह नहीं होती है, लेकिन उसकी बँधी हुई, चिल्लाने जैसी होती है. = English: The tiger's roar is not like the full-voiced roar of a lion, but more like a sentence of snarly, shouted words.	NHK also reported that the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear power plant in Niigata prefecture was operating normally.	NHK also reported that the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear power plant in Niigata Prefecture was operating normally.
Hindi: टॉमी ड्रीमर ने कहा “लूना पहली क्वीन ऑफ़ एक्सट्रीम थी. मेरी पहली मैनेजर. लूना की मृत्यु दो चाँद वाली मशहूर रात में हुई थी. वह रात उसकी तरह ही ख़ास थी. वह बेहद शक्तिशाली महिला थी.” = English: Tommy Dreamer said "Luna was the first Queen of Extreme. My first manager. Luna passed away on the night of two moons. Pretty unique just like her. Strong woman."	The earthquake was centered about 20 km (15 miles) north-northeast of Dillon, and about 65 km (40 miles) south of Butte.	The earthquake was centered about 20 km (15 mi) north-northeast of Delain and about 65 km (40 mi) south of Butt.
Hindi: न्यू किंगडम प्राचीन मिस्रवासी अपने पूर्ववर्तियों के स्मारकों से आश्चर्यचकित थे, जो तब एक हज़ार वर्ष से अधिक पुराने थे। = English: New Kingdom ancient Egyptians marvelled at their predecessors monuments, which were then well over a thousand year old.	The term bug is used by entomologists in a formal sense for this group of insects.	Entomologists use the word bug to formally refer to this group of insects.
Hindi: जल्द ही, दंगा संबंधी उपकरणों से लैस अधिकारियों ने अहाते में प्रवेश किया और कैदियों को आंसू गैस की मदद से काबू में कर लिया। = English: Soon, officers equipped with riot gear entered the yard and cornered the inmates with tear gas.	Ancient China had a unique way of showing different time periods; each stage of China or each family that was in power was a distinctive dynasty.	Ancient China had a unique way of showing different time periods. Each stage or each family that was in power was a dynasty.
Hindi: यूएसए जिमनास्टिक्स और यूएसओसी का एक ही लक्ष्य है — एथलीटों को सुरक्षित, सकारात्मक और सशक्त वातावरण में अपने सपनों का अनुसरण करने के लिए जिमनास्टिक्स और अन्य लोगों के खेल को जितना संभव हो सके उतना सुरक्षित बनाना. = English: USA Gymnastics and the USOC have the same goal — making the sport of gymnastics, and others, as safe as possible for athletes to follow their dreams in a safe, positive and empowered environment.	Travellers may encounter animal pests that they are not familiar with in their home regions.	Travelers are faced with animals and insects they are not familiar with in their home area.
Hindi: डेल पोत्रो के पास दूसरे सेट की शुरुआत में एडवांटेज था, लेकिन 6-6 पर पहुँचने के बाद इसमें भी टाई ब्रेक की आवश्यकता थी. = English: Del Potro had the early advantage in the second set, but this too required a tie break after reaching 6-6.	It is one of the main attractions of South Africa and it is considered the flagship of South African National Parks (SANParks).	This is one of the main attractions of South Africa and is considered to be the flagship of South African National Parks (SANParks).
Hindi: बाद में उन्हें कैम्ब्रिज में एडेनब्रुक के अस्पताल में स्थानांतरित कर दिया गया. = English: He was subsequently relocated to Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge.	"We will endeavour to cut carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by a notable margin by 2020 from the 2005 level," Hu said.	“We will strive to achieve a notable difference in per unit carbon dioxide emissions from gross domestic product by 2020 compared to 2005 levels,” he said.
Hindi: स्कीइंग का विचार बहुत पुराना है - गुफा चित्र स्कीयर्स को 5000 ईसा पूर्व तक की तारीखों में दर्शाते हैं| = English: The idea of skiing is very old — cave paintings depicting skiers date back as far as 5000 BC!	Mosasaurus was the apex predator of its time, so it feared nothing, except other mosasaurs.	Mausolus was the greatest hunter of his time, so he had no fear of any other Mausolus except his own.
Hindi: उनके शोध से पता चला कि अगर हार्मोन को प्रभाव में लाया जाए तो यह बच्चे के भ्रूण के फेफड़ों की परिपक्वता को गति देगा. = English: His research showed that if a hormone was administered it would speed up the baby's foetal lung maturation.	Chambers, an agnostic, argues that his lawsuit is "frivolous" and "anybody can sue anybody."	A sceptical Chambers argued that his case was "frivolous" and "anyone could sue anyone".
Hindi: वैज्ञानिक यह निष्कर्ष निकालने में सक्षम थे कि काला पदार्थ अन्य काले पदार्थ को उसी तरह प्रभावित करता है जिस तरह से आम पदार्थ करता है। = English: The scientists were able to conclude that the dark matter affect other dark matter in the same way regular matter does.	But regardless of his discovery, Eskimo tribes were already living there at the time.	But their discovery was unnoticed, the Eskimo tribe was already living there at that time.
Hindi: उत्तर की ओर हमारी महान आवर लेडी ऑफ़ फातिमा (श्राइन) अभ्यारण्य की भी यात्रा करे , दुनिया भर में प्रसिद्ध एक जगह जहा मैरिएन दिखाई देते हैं। = English: Also to the north visit the great Sanctuary of Our Lady of Fatima (Shrine), a place of worldwide famous Marian apparitions.	She came to this conclusion due to the multitude of positive comments and encouragement sent to her by both female and male individuals urging that contraception medication be considered a medical necessity.	The positive feedback from both men and women in large numbers led them to the conclusion that contraceptives should be accepted as essential drugs.
Hindi: टूर्नामेंटों की खबरों के लिए और पोलो मैचों के लिए टिकट खरीदने के लिए, एसोसिएशन अर्जेंटीना दे पोलो को देखें। = English: For news on tournaments and where to buy tickets for polo matches, check Asociacion Argentina de Polo.	It uses satellite-based technology as opposed to older ground-radar-based technology to allow air traffic controllers to pinpoint aircraft with greater precision and give pilots more accurate information.	It uses satellite-based technology, which is different from the ground-based radar technology used earlier, helping air traffic controllers to guide aircraft more accurately and pilots to get more accurate information.
Hindi: आमतौर पर इन शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रमों में दाखिला लेने के लिए शिक्षण शुल्क देना होगा. = English: Typically there will be a tuition fee to enroll in these educational programs.	Two popular content theories are Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs Theory and Hertzberg's Two Factor Theory.	There are two popular content theories: Maslow's hierarchy of needs theory and Herzberg's two-factor theory.
Hindi: मक्का के उत्तर में स्थित पहाड़ों में से एक के शीर्ष पर स्थित गुफा दुनिया के बाकी हिस्सों से पूरी तरह कटी हुई है। = English: Resting on the top of one of the mountains north of Mecca, the cave is completely isolated from the rest of the world.	Minor cultures often vanish without leaving relevant historic evidence and fail to be recognized as proper civilizations.	Small cultures disappear without leaving any historical evidence and are not accorded the status of civilization.
Hindi: 1884 में, टेस्ला न्यूयॉर्क शहर में एडिसन कंपनी के साथ नौकरी स्वीकार करने के लिए यूनाइटेड स्टेट्स ऑफ़ अमेरिका चले गए। = English: In 1884, Tesla moved to the United States of America to accept a job with the Edison Company in New York City.	Around 3 minutes into the launch, an on-board camera showed numerous pieces of insulation foam break away from the fuel tank.	About 3 minutes after launch, an on-board camera showed several pieces of insulation foam from the fuel tank.
Hindi: हालाँकि, शेंगेन ज़ोन इस मामले में कुछ हद तक एक देश की तरह काम करता है. = English: The Schengen zone, however, works somewhat like one country in this respect.	Through the night between 150 and 200 copies were made, now known as "Dunlap broadsides".	About 150 to 200 copies are made during the night, which are now known as "Dunlop Broadside".
Hindi: पटरियों को उनके स्थान पर बनाए रखने के लिए क्रॉ्सटाई को काफी पहले व्यवहार में लाया गया था। लेकिन धीरे-धीरे यह महसूस हुआ कि अगर पटरियों ऊपर लोहे की पत्ती हो तो वे ज्यादा दक्ष होंगी। = English: Crossties were introduced fairly early to hold the tracks in place. Gradually, however, it was realised that tracks would be more efficient if they had a stip of iron on the top.	Rare fauna such as the European brown bear, wolf, eagle, owl, lynx, wild cat and capercaillie can be found there, along with many more common species	Besides the common species, rare animals like the European brown bear, wolf, eagle, owl, badger, wild cat and capercaillie can also be found here.
Hindi: गायक संजू शर्मा ने शाम की शुरुआत की, उसके बाद जय शंकर चौधरी ने छप्पन भोग भजन भी गाया, गायक, राजू खंडेलवाल ने उनका साथ दिया। = English: Singer Sanju Sharma started the evening, followed by Jai Shankar Choudhary. esented the chhappan bhog bhajan as well. Singer, Raju Khandelwal was accompanying him.	Most insects have the advantage of being able to fold their wings back along the body.	Most insects benefit from having their wings back on their body.
Hindi: इसके अलावा, इस बात से अवगत रहें कि गंधक भालू और अन्य वन्यजीवों को आकर्षित करते हैं, इसलिए गंधयुक्त खाद्य पदार्थों को ले जाने या पकाने से बचें और शिविर साफ रखें। = English: In addition, be aware that odors attract bears and other wildlife, so avoid carrying or cooking odorous foods and keep a clean camp.	The wheel has changed the world in incredible ways. The biggest thing that the wheel has done for us is given us much easier and faster transportation.	Wheels have changed the world in extraordinary ways. The biggest thing is that wheels have given us easier and faster transportation.
Hindi: अंतर्देशीय जलमार्ग आनेवाली छुट्टियों के लिए एक अच्छा विषय हो सकता है। = English: Inland waterways can be a good theme to base a holiday around.	While one experimental vaccine appears able to reduce Ebola mortality, up until now, no drugs have been clearly demonstrated suitable for treating existing infection.	While an experimental vaccine may reduce the mortality rate of Ebola, no drug has yet been proven to treat the infection.
Hindi: कैसिनो आमतौर पर मेहमानों द्वारा खर्च किए गए समय और धन को अधिकतम करने के लिए कई प्रयास करते हैं. इसमें आमतौर पर खिड़कियाँ और घड़ियाँ नहीं होती हैं और बाहर जाने का रास्ता ढूंढना काफी कठिन हो सकता है. = English: Casinos typically make many efforts to maximize time and money spent by guests. Windows and clocks are usually absent, and exits can be hard to find.	For example, “learning” and “socialization” are suggested as important motivations for Internet use (James et al., 1995).	For example, "learning" and "socialization" are cited as important reasons for Internet use (James et al., 1995).
Hindi: यदि आपने स्थगन की घोषणा से पहले 2020 के लिए अपनी उड़ानें और रहने के स्थान बुक किए थे, तो यह आपके लिए एक मुश्किल स्थिति हो सकती है। = English: If you booked your flights and accommodation for 2020 before the postponement was announced, you may have a tricky situation.	If you want some small though rich pastries, try what depending on region are called Berliner, Pfannkuchen or Krapfen.	If you want some small but nutritious pastries, you can try the Berliner, pancakes or kaffeernüsse depending on the area.
Hindi: अंदरूनी विषाक्तता का तुरंत पता नहीं चलता है. इसके लक्षण सामान्य होते हैं जैसे कि उल्टी आना, इसलिए इसका तुरंत निदान नहीं किया जा सकता है. = English: Internal poisoning may not be immediately apparent. Symptoms, such as vomiting are sufficiently general that an immediate diagnosis cannot be made.	Courier companies are well paid for delivering things quickly. Frequently, time is very important with business documents, merchandise or spare parts for an urgent repair.	Courier companies are paid to deliver goods quickly and well. Often, documents, goods or spare parts used in business are delivered on time, which is very important.
Hindi: हलडारश्वीक  गाँव से पास के एस्टूरॉय का द्वीप नज़र आता है और इसमें एक असाधारण अष्टकोणीय चर्च है। = English: The village of Haldarsvík offer views of the nearby island Eysturoy and has an unusual octagonal church.	This is the place the British colonisers took as their own and so if you are looking for evidence of the territory's colonial past, this is a good place to start.	This is where the British colonists built their own and so if you are looking for evidence of the colonial past, this is a good place to look.
Hindi: आप मिश्रित धातुएँ भी ले सकते हैं जिनमें कार्बन जैसे नॉन-मैटेलिक एलिमेंट्स की छोटी मात्रा शामिल हो. = English: You can also have alloys that include small amounts of non-metallic elements like carbon.	In developed countries you seldom hear similar levels of complaints about water quality or bridges falling down.	In developed countries, you probably don't hear complaints about water quality or bridges collapsing at similar levels.
Hindi: उनकी अनुशासित रक्षा, गेंदबाजी की कला और टीम के अच्छे काम ने उन्हें बाहर खड़ा कर दिया और अब यह साफ हो गया था की ये टीम टक्कर देगी । = English: Their disciplined defence, ball handling skills and excellent team work made them stand out and it was clear that this was the team to beat.	The aspect ratio of this format (dividing by twelve to obtain the simplest whole-number ratio) is therefore said to be 3:2.	This ratio (to obtain the simplest whole-number ratio, divide by twelve) is therefore called 3:2.
Hindi: अमेरिकी राष्ट्रपति जॉर्ज डब्ल्यू बुश एशिया के एक हफ़्ते के दौरे की शुरुआत करते हुए 16 नवंबर की सुबह सिंगापुर पहुँचे. = English: U.S. President George W. Bush arrived in Singapore the morning of November 16, beginning a week-long tour of Asia.	Air accidents are common in Iran, which has an aging fleet that is poorly maintained both for civil and military operations.	Iran has a high rate of air accidents, due to its many years old aircraft, which are not properly maintained for civil and military operations.
Hindi: फ़ोटोग्राफ़रों ने बाद में एक वृद्ध महिला की जगह ले ली, क्योंकि उसे शौचालय जाना ज़रूरी था. मेंडोज़ा को गोली मार दी गई थी. = English: The photographers later took the place of an aged lady as she needed the lavatory. Mendoza was gunned down.	The Paralympics will take place from 24 August to 5 September 2021. Some events will be held in other locations throughout Japan.	The Paralympics will be held from 24 August 2021 to 5 September 2021. Some events will be held in other places in Japan.
Hindi: एक सच्ची “अदृश्य टीम” (लार्सन एंड लाफ़ास्टो, 1989, p109) की मौजूदगी भी वर्चुअल टीम का एक अनूठा घटक है. = English: The presence of a true “invisible team” (Larson and LaFasto, 1989, p109) is also a unique component of a virtual team.	Most of the monasteries do provide wraps for women who come unprepared, but if you bring your own, especially one with bright colors, you'll get a smile from the monk or nun at the entrance.	Most monasteries provide a scarf for women to cover their heads, but if you bring your own, especially bright-colored one, you will get a sweet smile from a monk or nun at the entrance.
Hindi: संयुक्त सेना और अफगान सैनिक समूह साइट को सुरक्षित करने के लिए इलाके में चले गए और दूसरी संयुक्त सेना विमानों को सहायता के लिए भेजा गया. = English: Coalition and Afghan troops moved into the area to secure the site and other coalition aircraft have been sent to assist.	In the north the region is bounded by the Sahel, and in the south and west by the Atlantic Ocean.	It is surrounded by the Sahara to the north, the Atlantic Ocean to the south and west, and the Mediterranean Sea to the east.
Hindi: विकसित देशों में आप शायद ही कभी पानी की गुणवत्ता या पुलों के गिरने की मिलते-जुलते स्तरों वाली शिकायतें सुनते हैं. = English: In developed countries you seldom hear similar levels of complaints about water quality or bridges falling down.	Oliver Sacks, in his paper The President's Speech, indicated how people who are unable to understand speech because of brain damage are nevertheless able to assess sincerity accurately.	Oliver Sacks in his paper The President Speech, indicated how people who suffer from brain damage and cannot understand speech, can still make a correct assessment of honesty.
Hindi: प्रथम विश्व युद्ध के दौरान युद्ध की भयानकता और अत्याचारों को देखने के बाद, राष्ट्र भविष्य में ऐसी स्थिति से बचने के लिए कामना करता है । = English: After seeing the horrors and atrocities of war during World War I, nations desired to avoid such a situation again in the future.	Most districts are served by small Japanese Coaster Buses, which are comfortable and sturdy.	Most Japanese cities have small, comfortable and strong buses called Jidosha.
Hindi: साल का सबसे बड़ा टूर्नामेंट दिसंबर में लास कैनिटास के पोलो मैदान में होता है. = English: The largest tournament of the year takes place in December at the polo fields in Las Cañitas.	In many cases, enrolling on a gap-year course abroad can actually improve your chances of moving into higher education back in your home country.	In many cases, taking admission in a one-year gap course abroad actually increases your chances of getting admission in a higher education course in your own country.
Hindi: जापान के अर्थव्यवस्था, व्यापार और उद्योग मंत्रालय (METI) ने कहा कि उसे उपकरणों से संबंधित 27 दुर्घटनाओं की जानकारी थी. = English: Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) said that it had been aware of 27 accidents related to the devices.	They often have more autonomy than conventional team members as their teams may meet according to varying time zones which may not be understood by their local management.	They have more freedom than traditional team members because their teams can meet at different time zones that may not be understood by their local management.
Hindi: पुनर्निर्माण की कोशिश की स्पष्ट आलोचना वॉशिंगटन के कथित घनिष्ट लोगों को पुनर्निर्माण के ठेके दिए जाने पर केंद्रित रही है. = English: Liberal criticism of the reconstruction effort has focused on the awarding of reconstruction contracts to perceived Washington insiders.	Think of the skiing route as of a similar hiking route.	Think of a skiing trail as a hiking trail.
Hindi: एक दंपत्ति फैसला ले सकता है कि यह उनके या उनके बच्चे के हित में बिलकुल नहीं है कि एक दूसरा बच्चा किया जाए | = English: A couple may decide it is not in their best interest, or in the interest of their child, to raise a baby.	Romanticism had a large element of cultural determinism, drawn from writers such as Goethe, Fichte, and Schlegel.	Romanticism was heavily influenced by cultural determinism, which was taken from Goethe, Fichte and Schlegel.
Hindi: ताज़ा-तरीन बुलेटिन के मुताबिक, समुद्री स्तर की रीडिंग बताती है कि वहाँ सुनामी आई थी. पागो पागो और नीयू के करीब सुनामी की कुछ गतिविधि पक्के तौर पर रिकॉर्ड की गई थी. = English: According to the latest bulletin, sea level readings indicated a tsunami was generated. There was some definite tsunami activity recorded near Pago Pago and Niue.	Typically there will be a tuition fee to enroll in these educational programs.	Usually, there will be a tuition fee for enrolling in these academic programs.
Hindi: वैज्ञानिकों का कहना है कि टकराव के कारण हुआ विस्फोट बड़े पैमाने पर हुआ था. = English: Scientists say the explosion caused by the collision was massive.	Skiing is a major travelling activity with many enthusiasts, occasionally known as "ski bums," planning entire vacations around skiing at a particular location.	Skiing is a major travel activity for many enthusiasts, which is sometimes called “ski bombs”, where the whole vacation is planned around skiing at a particular place.
Hindi: हालाँकि, डायनासोर के पंखों के शाफ्ट पूरी तरह से विकसित नहीं होते हैं और उन्हें रैचिस कहा जाता है. लेकिन उनके पंखों में बार्ब्स और बार्बुल्स जैसी अन्य खूबियाँ होती हैं. शोधकर्ताओं ने अनुमान लगाया है कि डायनासोर की अन्य खूबियों की तरह शायद रैचिस भी बाद में विकसित हुए होंगे. = English: Because the dinosaur feathers do not have a well-developed shaft, called a rachis, but do have other features of feathers — barbs and barbules — the researchers inferred the rachis was likely a later evolutionary development that these other features.	In a carriage, they traveled back to Paris surrounded by a mob of people screaming and shouting threats against the King and Queen.	They traveled back to Paris in a carriage surrounded by screaming crowds, shouting at the king and queen.
Hindi: ऑस्ट्रेलिया, जर्मनी, स्लोवेनिया, बुल्गारिया, ग्रीस और इटली के बाद फ़्रांस यूरोपियन संघ का सातवाँ देश है, जो इस वायरस की मार झेल रहा है. = English: France is the seventh country in the European Union to suffer this virus; following Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Greece and Italy.	So, it is likely that the notation was added simply as a label.	Therefore, it is being assumed that the notation was only added as a label.
Hindi: स्कॉटो बस 403, हर दिन काबो दा रोका पर रुकते हुए सिंतरा जाती है. = English: Scotturb Bus 403 travels regularly to Sintra, stopping at Cabo da Roca.	In the PALM trial, ZMapp served as a control, meaning scientists used it as a baseline and compared the three other treatments to it.	In the PALM trial, ZMapp was used as a control, meaning scientists used it as a baseline and compared it to three other treatments.
Hindi: फ़्रांसीसी क्रांति ने दूसरे देशों में मौजूद कामगार वर्ग के कई दमित लोगों को भी अपनी-अपनी क्रांतियां शुरू करने की प्रेरणा दी. = English: The French Revolution also inspired many other repressed working class people of other country's to began their own revolutions.	Next, some saddles, particularly English saddles, have safety bars that allow a stirrup leather to fall off the saddle if pulled backwards by a falling rider.	After that, some saddles, especially English saddles, have safety straps that a rider can pull back to fall off the saddle if he falls forward.
Hindi: जब अधिकारी मतदाता की पहचान की पुष्टि कर लेते हैं, तब मतदाता लिफ़ाफ़े को बैलट बॉक्स में डालता है और वोटिंग रोल पर हस्ताक्षर कर देता है. = English: After officials verify the voter's identity, the voter drops the envelope into the ballot box and signs the voting roll.	A curry is a dish based on herbs and spices, together with either meat or vegetables.	Curry is a dish made by mixing meat or vegetables with spices and herbs.
Hindi: शेयर्ड टैक्सियाँ पारो (Nu 150) और पुनाखा (Nu 200) जैसी आस-पास की जगहों पर जाने के लिए तेज़ और आरामदायक साधन हैं. = English: Shared taxis are a quick and comfortable means to travel to nearby places, such as Paro (Nu 150) and Punakha (Nu 200).	In the context of Romanticism, the geography molded individuals, and over time customs and culture related to that geography arose, and these, being in harmony with the place of the society, were better than arbitrarily imposed laws.	In the context of liberalism, geography shaped individuals and over time, the geography generated the customs and culture associated with it. Because of their association with a particular place, these people were better than those who were arbitrarily imposed laws.
Hindi: एक दंपत्ति फैसला ले सकता है कि यह उनके या उनके बच्चे के हित में बिलकुल नहीं है कि एक दूसरा बच्चा किया जाए | = English: A couple may decide it is not in their best interest, or in the interest of their child, to raise a baby.	Such things have become separate disciplines, which focus on providing solutions to real life problems.	These disciplines have become different things, which focus on providing solutions to real life problems.
Hindi: पोलैंड निवासी नेत्रहीन पुरुष, मैकीज क्रेज़ेल और उनकी गाइड ऐना ऑगर्ज़िनस्का ने सुपर-जी मुकाबले में तेरहवाँ स्थान हासिल किया. इसके अलावा, दक्षिण कोरिया के जोंग सिऑर्क पार्क इस मुकाबले में चौबीसवें स्थान पर रहे. = English: Poland's men's visually impaired skier Maciej Krezel and guide Anna Ogarzynska finished thirteenth in the Super-G. South Korea's Jong Seork Park finished twenty-fourth in the men's sitting Super-G.	The tiger's roar is not like the full-voiced roar of a lion, but more like a sentence of snarly, shouted words.	The roar of a tiger is not like the roar of a lion, but it is a roar like a yell.
Hindi: रकाबें सवार के पैरों को सहारा देने के लिए होती हैं जो काठी के दोनों तरफ नीचे की ओर लटकी रहती हैं. = English: Stirrups are supports for the rider's feet that hang down on either side of the saddle.	Regular announcements in the Metro are made only in Catalan, but unplanned disruptions are announced by an automated system in a wide variety of languages including Spanish, English, French, Arabic and Japanese.	Announcements in the Metro are only made in Catalan, but an automatic system in various languages announces unplanned interruptions.
Hindi: 2010 के संघीय चुनाव से पहले 1,400 लोगों ने मतदान किया, 2008 से जो लोग ऑस्ट्रेलिया के गणतंत्र बनने का विरोध करते हैं उनमें 8 प्रतिशत की वृद्धि हुई. = English: Out of 1,400 people polled prior to the 2010 federal election, those who oppose Australia becoming a republic grew by 8 per cent since 2008.	The obvious way of flying in first or business class is to fork out a thick wad of money for the privilege (or, better yet, get your company to do it for you).	First or business class travel is a luxury you pay for convenience (or, better still, book through your company).
Hindi: डुवैल, जो विवाहित है और उसके दो वयस्क बच्चे हैं, उसने मिलर पर बड़ा असर नहीं किया, जिस से कहानी संबंधित है. = English: Duvall, who is married with two adult children, did not leave a big impression on Miller, to whom the story was related.	No tsunami warning has been issued, and according to the Jakarta geophysics agency, no tsunami warning will be issued because the quake did not meet the magnitude 6.5 requirement.	No tsunami warning has been issued, and the Jakarta Geophysics Agency said that no tsunami warning would be issued because the earthquake did not meet the 6.5 magnitude requirement.
Hindi: उनका काम ऐसी गुणवत्ता और विस्तार के पहचान का है कि वह टिकट संग्रहकर्ताओं के बीच बहुत कम “घरेलू नामों” में से एक है. कुछ उनके काम को अकेले बटोरने में माहिर हैं. = English: His work is of such recognized quality and detail that he is one of the very few "household names" among philatelists. Some specialize in collecting his work alone.	Despite there being no tsunami threat, residents started to panic and began to leave their businesses and homes.	There was no tsunami threat, but the residents were afraid of losing their lives. So they started leaving their businesses and homes.
Hindi: माऊ आंदोलन द्वारा स्वतंत्रता के लिए आयोजित संघर्ष के दौरान, नगर में एक शांतिपूर्ण सभा में प्रमुख तापुआ तामासेसे सेलोफ़ी तृतीय की हत्या हो गई. = English: During the struggle for independence organised by the Mau movement, a peaceful gathering in the town resulted in the killing of the paramount chief Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III.	A former Filipino policeman has kept Hong Kong tourists hostage by hijacking their bus in Manila, the capital of the Philippines.	A former Filipino police officer has hijacked his bus and taken hostage a group of Hong Kong tourists in the capital Manila of the Philippines.
Hindi: द्वीपों के बाहर फ़ॉकलैंड की करंसी को बदलना लगभग असंभव है, इसलिए द्वीप छोड़ने से पहले पैसों को बदलवा लें. = English: It is nearly impossible to exchange Falklands currency outside of the islands, so exchange money prior to leaving the islands.	This is especially popular with school leavers, allowing them to take a year out before university, without compromising their education.	It is particularly popular with school leavers, allowing them to leave university a year early without compromising on their education.
Hindi: प्रायद्वीप के पहाड़ यहाँ आकर पठार में मिल जाते हैं, फिर वापस उभरकर वे मिनेसोटा ग्लेशियर द्वारा दो हिस्सों में काटे गए एल्सवर्थ माउंटेंस की 360 किलोमीटर लंबी श्रृंखला बनाते हैं. = English: The mountains of the Peninsula here merge into the plateau, then re-emerge to form the 360 km chain of the Ellsworth Mountains, bisected by the Minnesota Glacier.	U.S. President George W. Bush welcomed the announcement.	US President George W Bush welcomed the announcement.
Hindi: रणनीति महत्वपूर्ण सैन्य और असैन्य आपूर्ति को काटते हुए प्रभावी साबित हुई, हालाँकि इस नाकाबंदी ने पिछले दो शताब्दियों के कई अंतरराष्ट्रीय समझौतों द्वारा आमतौर पर स्वीकृत अंतर्राष्ट्रीय कानून का उल्लंघन किया। = English: The strategy proved effective, cutting off vital military and civilian supplies, although this blockade violated generally accepted international law codified by several international agreements of the past two centuries.	His work is of such recognized quality and detail that he is one of the very few "household names" among philatelists. Some specialize in collecting his work alone.	Their work is so identified with quality and extent that it is one of the few “domestic names” in the collecting world. Some are experts in collecting their work alone.
Hindi: अभी भी प्राधिकारियों से सलाह लें, सभी संकेतों का पालन करें और सुरक्षा चेतावनियों पर पूरा ध्यान दें. = English: Still, take advice from authorities, obey all signs, and pay close attention to safety warnings.	Technological determinism is a term that encompasses a wide range of ideas in practice, from technology-push or the technological imperative to a strict sense that human destiny is driven by an underlying logic associated with scientific laws and their manifestation in technology.	Technological determinism is a term that encompasses a wide range of ideas, from technological push or technological inevitability to a strict sense that human destiny is determined by scientific laws and the performance of technology within them.
Hindi: माचू पिच्चू में तीन मुख्य संरचनाएं हैं, जो कि इतिहुआताना, सूर्य का मंदिर और तीन खिड़कियों का कमरा हैं। = English: Machu Picchu consist of three main structures, namely Intihuatana, the Temple of the Sun, and the Room of the Three Windows.	According to the latest bulletin, sea level readings indicated a tsunami was generated. There was some definite tsunami activity recorded near Pago Pago and Niue.	Latest bulletin says that the sea level readings indicate that there was a tsunami. Some activity of the tsunami was recorded near Pago Pago and Niu.
Hindi: गंभीर मौसम किसी भी खतरनाक मौसमी घटना के लिए वर्गीय शब्द है जिसमें नुकसान, गंभीर सामाजिक व्यवधान, या मानव जीवन की हानि की संभावना है। = English: Severe weather is the generic term for any dangerous weather phenomenon with the potential to cause damage, serious social disruption, or loss of human life.	Our foster care system is supposed to provide safe homes, loving caregivers, stable education, and reliable health care.	Our foster care system provides a safe home, loving care, stable education and reliable health care.
Hindi: आम तौर पर, ट्रैवल एजेंट ऐसे पैकेज ऑफ़र करते हैं, जिनमें नाश्ता, हवाई अड्डे आने-जाने की व्यवस्था या हवाई यात्रा की टिकट के साथ-साथ होटल का किराया भी शामिल होता है. = English: Travel agents usually offer packages that include breakfast, transportation arrangements to/from the airport or even combined flight and hotel packages.	Examples include control, planning and scheduling, the ability to answer customer diagnoses and questions, as well as handwriting recognition, voice and face.	Examples include control, planning and scheduling, diagnosing and answering customer questions, handwriting identification, bidding and face recognition.
Hindi: सत्ताधारी दल साउथ वेस्ट अफ्रीका पीपल आर्गेनाइजेशन (स्वापो) ने संसदीय चुनाव में बहुमत पाया. = English: The ruling party, South West Africa People's Organisation (SWAPO), also retained a majority in the parliamentary elections.	The governor's office said nineteen of the injured were police officers.	The office of the Governor said that nineteen of the injured were police officers.
Hindi: आरोपियों के नाम बाबा कंजर, भूथा कंजर, रामप्रो कंजर, गाज़ा कंजर और विष्णु कंजर हैं। = English: The accused are named as Baba Kanjar, Bhutha Kanjar, Rampro Kanjar, Gaza Kanjar and Vishnu Kanjar.	Scientists think that ocelots follow and find animals to eat (prey) by smell, sniffing for where they've been on the ground.	Scientists believe that Ocelots smell animals and eat them (hunt) by following them and smelling where they have been on the ground.
Hindi: हम फोस्टर केयर सिस्टम को इन बच्चों के लिए एक सुरक्षित क्षेत्र मानते हैं। = English: We perceive the Foster Care System to be a safety zone for these children.	Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) said that it had been aware of 27 accidents related to the devices.	Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) said it had information on 27 accidents involving equipment.
Hindi: स्पेन के लोगों ने उपनिवेश काल की शुरुआत की, जो तीन शताब्दियों तक जारी रहा. = English: The Spaniards started the colonization period which lasted for three centuries.	Aerosmith have cancelled their remaining concerts on their tour.	Aerosmith cancelled the remaining music shows of their tour.
Hindi: टेक्नोलॉजिकल निर्धारणवाद एक ऐसा शब्द है, जो व्यवहार में विचारों की एक विस्तृत श्रृंखला को शामिल करता है, प्रौद्योगिकी-धक्का या तकनीकी अनिवार्यता से लेकर सख्त अर्थ तक कि मानव नियति वैज्ञानिक कानूनों और प्रौद्योगिकी में उनके प्रदर्शन से जुड़े एक अंतर्निहित तर्क से प्रेरित है। = English: Technological determinism is a term that encompasses a wide range of ideas in practice, from technology-push or the technological imperative to a strict sense that human destiny is driven by an underlying logic associated with scientific laws and their manifestation in technology.	In this dynamic transport shuttle everyone is somehow connected with, and supporting, a transport system based on private cars.	Everyone is somehow connected to this dynamic transportation shuttle, and supports a transportation system based on private cars.
Hindi: स्कॉटो बस 403, हर दिन काबो दा रोका पर रुकते हुए सिंतरा जाती है. = English: Scotturb Bus 403 travels regularly to Sintra, stopping at Cabo da Roca.	You can see the pyramids in the dark and you can see them in silence before the show begins.	You can see the pyramids in peace before the show starts in the dark.
Hindi: कांग्रेस के पास टैक्स लगाने का कोई अधिकार नहीं था, क्योंकि वहाँ कोई राष्ट्रीय कार्यकारी या न्यायपालिका नहीं थी. यह राज्य के अधिकारियों पर निर्भर थे, जो अक्सर अपने सभी कार्यों को लागू करने में सहयोगी नहीं थे. = English: Congress lacked any power to impose taxes, and, because there was no national executive or judiciary, it relied on state authorities, who were often uncooperative, to enforce all its acts.	The Arabs also brought Islam to the lands, and it took in a big way in the Comoros and Mayotte.	Arabs brought Islam to this land, and spread it widely in Comoros and Mayotte.
Hindi: कनान देश में बड़े जंगलो के न होने के चलते वहाँ लकड़ियाँ बहुत महंगी थी। = English: There were no large forests in the land of Canaan, so wood was extremely expensive.	The Articles required unanimous consent from all the states before they could be amended and states took the central government so lightly that their representatives were often absent.	Before the amendment of the article, all states needed to agree unanimously and the states did not take the central government seriously and their representatives often did not come to the assembly.
Hindi: भाषा और रीति-रिवाज़ में अंतर के बावजूद हज़ारों सालों से ईसाई धर्म ने यूरोपीय देशों को एक साथ बांधे रखा है. = English: For over a thousand years the Christian religion had bound European states together despite differences in language and customs. I	The word civilization comes from the Latin civilis, meaning civil, related to the Latin civis, meaning citizen, and civitas, meaning city or city-state, and that also somehow defines the size of the society.	The word civilization is derived from the Latin civis, meaning citizen, from the Latin civis, meaning citizen, and from the Latin civitas, meaning city or city-state, and it also defines the size of society in a way.
Hindi: दूरस्थ स्थानों में, सेल फ़ोन कवरेज नहीं होने से, एक सेटेलाइट फ़ोन आपका एकमात्र विकल्प हो सकता है. = English: In remote locations, without cell phone coverage, a satellite phone may be your only option.	It is helpful to also wear a ring (just not one that looks too expensive.	It is also useful to wear a ring (just not for the sake of looking expensive).
Hindi: आजकल कई Sámi आधुनिक व्यापार में काम करते हैं, Sápmi, जो कि Sámi लोगों से बसा हुआ है, में पर्यटन एक बहुत ही अहम् आमदनी का हिस्सा है। = English: Today many Sámi work in modern trades. Tourism is an important income in Sápmi, the Sámi area.	Suspected cases of H5N1 in Croatia and Denmark remain unconfirmed.	Croatia and Denmark have unconfirmed H5N1 cases.
Hindi: अमेज़न नदी धरती की दूसरी सबसे लंबी और सबसे बड़ी नदी है. इसमें दूसरी सबसे बड़ी नदी से 8 गुना से भी ज़्यादा पानी है. = English: The Amazon River is the second longest and the biggest river on Earth. It carries more than 8 times as much water as the second biggest river.	The Director of Public Prosecutions, Kier Starmer QC, gave a statement this morning announcing the prosecution of both Huhne and Pryce.	The Director of Public Prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, made a statement this morning, announcing a prosecution on both phone and price.
Hindi: माऊ आंदोलन द्वारा स्वतंत्रता के लिए आयोजित संघर्ष के दौरान, नगर में एक शांतिपूर्ण सभा में प्रमुख तापुआ तामासेसे सेलोफ़ी तृतीय की हत्या हो गई. = English: During the struggle for independence organised by the Mau movement, a peaceful gathering in the town resulted in the killing of the paramount chief Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III.	Economic links have been re-established between these two parts of Moldova despite the failure in political negotiations.	Political deadlock notwithstanding, economic partnership was re-established between these two areas of Moldova.
Hindi: मोरक्को के सुल्तान ने शहर को दारू ल-बाद्या के नाम से फिर से बनाया और स्पेन के व्यापारियों ने इसे कासाब्लांका का नाम दिया जिन्होंने वहां पर व्यापार के केंद्र स्थापित किए थे. = English: The Moroccan sultan rebuilt the city as Daru l-Badya and it was given the name Casablanca by Spanish traders who established trading bases there.	The job of navies has traditionally been to ensure that your country maintains the ability to move your people and goods, while at the same time, interfering with your enemy's ability to move his people and goods.	The traditional role of navies is to maintain the ability to transfer people and goods from one place to another, and to interfere with the ability of the enemy to transfer people and goods.
Hindi: ऐसा माना जाता है कि पेरिस के निवासी अहंकारी, असभ्य और अभिमानी होते हैं। = English: Parisians have a reputation for being egocentric, rude and arrogant.	After officials verify the voter's identity, the voter drops the envelope into the ballot box and signs the voting roll.	When the voter is identified by the polling officer, the voter puts the ballot in the ballot box and signs the voting roll.
Hindi: जारी की गयी गति सीमाएं पहले की तुलना में काफी कम है -आमतौर पर यह 35-40 मील प्रति घंटा(56-60 किमी प्रति घंटा ) और उनके लिए सख्त नियम काफी जरूरी है = English: Posted speed limits are noticeably lower than in previous and subsequent sections — commonly 35-40 mph (56-64 km/h) — and strict obedience to them is even more important than otherwise.	With two years of the end of the war, the former allies were now enemies and the Cold War began.	The last two years of the war saw former allies now become enemies and the Cold War had begun.
Hindi: जैविक घड़ियां आत्मनिर्भर ऑसिलेटर हैं जो बाहरी संकेतों के अभाव में भी मुक्त चलने वाले साइकिल को एक अवधि तक जारी रखेंगे। = English: Biological clocks are self sustaining oscillators which will continue a period of free-running cycling even in the absence of external cues.	Built by the Egyptians in the third century BCE, the Great Pyramid is one of many large pyramid structures built to honor dead Pharaoh.	The Great Pyramid of Giza, built by the Egyptians in the 3rd century BCE, is one of several large pyramid structures built to honour the dead pharaohs.
Hindi: इसे तेज़ी से प्राप्त करने का एकमात्र तरीका इसे चेक किए गए सामान के रूप में भेजना था। एयरलाइन के नियम उन्हें बिना यात्री के सामान भेजने की अनुमति नहीं देंगे, और यहीं पर आप काम आएँगे। = English: The only way to get it through faster was to send it as checked luggage. Airline regulations will not allow them to send luggage without a passenger, which is where you come in.	The scientists were able to conclude that the dark matter affect other dark matter in the same way regular matter does.	Scientists were able to conclude that black matter affects other black matter in the same way that ordinary matter does.
Hindi: बाहरी द्वीपों पर क्रेडिट कार्ड शायद स्वीकार नहीं किए जाएँगे, हालाँकि ब्रिटिश और संयुक्त राज्य की मुद्रा स्वीकार्य होगी; यह निर्धारित करने के लिए कि स्वीकार्य भुगतान विधि क्या है, मालिकों से पहले ही पूछ लें। = English: On the outlying islands credit cards will probably not be accepted, although British and United States currency may be taken; check with the owners in advance to determine what is an acceptable payment method.	Therefore, reading this grammar primer would help you learn much about Persian grammar and understand phrases better.	So, this first grammar book will help you learn a lot about Persian grammar and understand the phrases better.
Hindi: विज्ञान अब यह संकेत देता है कि इस विशाल कार्बन अर्थव्यवस्था ने जीवमंडल को उसकी स्थिर स्थितियों में से एक से हटा दिया है जिसने पिछले बीस लाख सालों में मानव विकास में सहायता की है. = English: Science now indicates that this massive carbon economy has dislodged the biosphere from one of its stable states that has supported human evolution for the past two million years.	The Moroccan sultan rebuilt the city as Daru l-Badya and it was given the name Casablanca by Spanish traders who established trading bases there.	The Sultan of Morocco rebuilt the city as Dar ul-Baida and the Spanish traders called it Casablaca, after they established trading centers there.
Hindi: वहीं दूसरी ओर, कई देशों में ठंडी और बर्फ़ भरी परिस्थितियां होना आम बात है, और ट्रैफ़िक पूरे साल ज़्यादातर बिना रुकावट चलता रहता है. = English: On the other hand, icy and snowy conditions are normal in many countries, and traffic goes on mostly uninterrupted all year round.	Searches at security checkpoints have also become far more intrusive in the post-September 11, 2001 era.	After September 11, 2001, security checkpoints have become more intrusive as well.
Hindi: यह इसे 802.11a, 802.11b और 802.11g के साथ पीछे की ओर संगत करने की अनुमति देगा, बशर्ते कि बेस स्टेशन में दोहरे रेडियो हों. = English: This will allow it to be backwards compatible with 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g, provided that the base station has dual radios.	Under them are more medium sized cats that eat medium sized prey ranging from rabbits to antelopes and deer.	They include larger cats that eat medium-sized prey such as rabbits, hares, deer and wild boar.
Hindi: उदाहरण के लिए लॉयर वैली, राइन वैली के महलों में जाना या दानुबे की दिलचस्प जगहों तक जाने के लिए क्रूज़ से सफ़र करना या इरी कैनाल के साथ-साथ बोटिंग करना. = English: For example visiting castles in the Loire Valley, the Rhine valley or taking a cruise to interesting cites on the Danube or boating along the Erie Canal.	The hot chocolate is up to Belgian standards. Fruit juices are pricey but excellent.	Hot chocolate is made according to Belgian standards. Fruit juice is expensive but very good.
Hindi: पानी लेवे के ऊपर एक खंड में फ़ैल रहा है जिसकी चौड़ाई 100 फ़ीट है | = English: Water is spilling over the levee in a section 100 feet wide.	Although the coastal archipelagos and the biggest lakes are indeed big enough for any yacht, smaller boats or even a kayak offer a different experience.	Although coastal islands and the largest lakes are quite large for any yacht, they offer a different experience from smaller boats or canoes.
Hindi: आपिया समोआ की राजधानी है। यह शहर उपोलू द्वीप पर है और इसकी आबादी 40,000 से भी कम है। = English: Apia is the capital of Samoa. The town is on the island of Upolu and has a population of just under 40,000.	If you only go ashore using shipboard excursions you will not need a separate visa (as of 2009).	If you only use a shipboard visit to get to shore you will not need a separate visa (until 2009).
Hindi: यह अवधारणा चीन से आई थी जहाँ बेर के फूल पसंदीदा फूल होते थे। = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	Fire rescue crews eventually doused the fire by 11:35 pm.	Fire brigade finally put out the fire at 11:35.
Hindi: चूँकि उनकी शुरुआती दिनों में प्रकाश प्रदूषण आज की तरह की समस्या नहीं थी, वे आमतौर पर शहरों में या परिसरों में स्थित हैं, जहाँ आधुनिक समय में निर्मित जगहों की तुलना में पहुँचना आसान होता हैं। = English: As light pollution in their heyday was not the kind of problem it is today, they are usually located in cities or at campuses, easier to reach than those built in modern times.	The U.N. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts.	In addition, the United Nations hopes to collect funds to help countries affected by global warming to cope with its effects.
Hindi: लेटन ने पीएम से मुलाकात के दौरान कंज़र्वेटिव पार्टी के पर्यावरण बिल में बदलाव के लिए कहा था. अब कंज़र्वेटिव पार्टी के पर्यावरण बिल को “पूरी तरह से फिर से लिखने” के लिए कहा जा रहा है. = English: Layton had asked for changes to the conservatives' environmental bill during the meeting with the PM, asking for a "thorough and complete rewriting" of the Conservative party's environmental bill.	At the other end of the spectrum, one morphs into an unrecognizable individual that feels he or she must change everything the team has been doing and make it their own.	The other end of the spectrum is a person who takes on the persona of an unknown person who thinks that he should be able to change the team and make it his own.
Hindi: गीज़ा पठार, “गीज़ा नेक्रोपोलिस” या मृतकों की मिस्र की घाटी में कई पिरामिड (जिनमें से द ग्रेट पिरामिड सबसे बड़ा है), कई छोटी कब्रें, कई मंदिर और महान स्फिंक्स हैं. = English: The Giza Plateau, or "Giza Necropolis" in the Egyptian Valley of the Dead contains several pyramids (of which the great pyramid is the largest), several small tombs, several temples, and the great Sphinx.	The Guaraní were the most significant indigenous group inhabiting what is now Eastern Paraguay, living as semi-nomadic hunters who also practised subsistence agriculture.	The Guaraní are the most distinctive group of the original inhabitants of eastern Paraguay. They are nomadic and also cultivate crops for their livelihood.
Hindi: आमतौर पर आप हमेशा पर्यटकों और बेचने वालों की आवाज़ सुनते हैं. ध्वनि और प्रकाश की कहानी स्टोरी बुक जैसी है. = English: Usually you always here the sound of tourists and vendors. The story of the sound and light is just like a story book.	Please treat the site with all of the dignity, solemnity and respect it deserves. Do not make jokes about the Holocaust or Nazis.	Please respect this place, behave seriously and give it the same respect it deserves. Do not make jokes about the Holocaust or the Nazis.
Hindi: वहीं दूसरी ओर, कई देशों में ठंडी और बर्फ़ भरी परिस्थितियां होना आम बात है, और ट्रैफ़िक पूरे साल ज़्यादातर बिना रुकावट चलता रहता है. = English: On the other hand, icy and snowy conditions are normal in many countries, and traffic goes on mostly uninterrupted all year round.	Swirl the two dry powders together and then, with clean wet hands, squeeze them into a ball.	Mix both the dry powders together and then squeeze the ball with clean wet hands.
Hindi: अधिकारियों के अनुमान के अनुसार साइट पर यूरेनियम ईंधन रखने वाले कंटेनर टूट गए होंगे और लीक हो रहे होंगे. = English: Authorities speculate that this indicates that containers holding uranium fuel at the site may have ruptured and are leaking.	Scaffolds can be both virtual and real, in other words, a teacher is a form of scaffold but so is the little paperclip man in Microsoft Office.	A teacher can be a virtual shapeless or a real shapeless, in other words, a teacher is a kind of shapeless but the paperclip man of Microsoft Office is the same.
Hindi: मंत्रालय ने एप्पल की रिपोर्ट के स्थगन को यह कहते हुए प्रतिक्रिया दी है कि वह “यकीनन पछतावे के योग्य है.” = English: The ministry responded by calling Apple's postponement of the report "truly regrettable."	Twentieth century research has shown that there are two pools of genetic variation: hidden and expressed.	Research in the 20th century revealed that genetic variation is divided into two pools: hidden and expressed.
Hindi: हालाँकि, देशभर में बिछा सड़कों का जाल सिर्फ़ मुट्ठीभर कारों के लिए किफ़ायती नहीं था, इसलिए कार खरीदने का खर्च कम करने क लिए उत्पादन के नए-नए तरीके विकसित किए गए. = English: However, a nationwide road network is not economically viable for just a handful of cars, so new methods of production are developed to reduce the cost of car ownership.	This is an important way to distinguish between some verbs and objects.	This is a very important way of distinguishing between actions and subjects.
Hindi: मीट्रिक प्रणाली के इस्तेमाल, निरपेक्षवाद से गणतंत्रवाद, राष्ट्रवाद में बदलाव और देश का भरोसा लोगों से है किसी एक शासक से नहीं, ऐसी बातों का बहुत ज़्यादा सामाजिक और राजनैतिक असर होता है. = English: There are a lot of social and political effects such as the use of metric system, a shift from absolutism to republicanism, nationalism and the belief the country belongs to the people not to one sole ruler.	Since there was limited response to this tactic, Germany expected a similar response to its unrestricted submarine warfare.	Since this strategy had received limited response, Germany expected the same response for its unrestricted submarine warfare.
Hindi: हम इस प्रक्रिया को प्रजातिकरण कहते हैं, जिसका अर्थ है नई प्रजातियों का गठन। प्रजातिकरण एक अच्छा कदम है और विकास का एक बहुत महत्वपूर्ण हिस्सा है। = English: We call this process speciation, which just means the formation of new species. Speciation is an unavoidable consequence and a very important part of evolution.	It is obvious enough that the world has changed much because of humankind's scientific and technological advancements, and problems have become greater because of overpopulation and mankind's extravagant lifestyle.	It is very clear that the scientific and technological progress of the human race has changed the world very much, and the problems have increased due to the excessive population and the wasteful lifestyle of the human race.
Hindi: उसका पहला स्लैलम था, जहाँ उसने अपने पहले चक्र मे दौड़ को पूरा ना कर सका ।इस दौड़ में 116 प्रतियोगियों में से 36 खिलाड़ियों ने एक ही स्थान प्राप्त किया । = English: Her first was the Slalom, where she earned a Did Not Finish in her first run. 36 of the 116 competitors had the same result in that race.	Gosling and Stone received nominations for Best Actor and Actress respectively.	Gosling and Stone were nominated for Best Actor and Best Actress, respectively.
Hindi: हू ने विकासशील देशों को “ पुराने तरीकों से प्रदूषण फैलाने से रोकने और बाद में सफाई करने के लिए प्रोत्साहित किया।” = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	They all ran back from where the accident had happened.	They all ran away from where the accident had happened.
Hindi: वैज्ञानिकों का मानना है कि ओसेलोट्स गंध के द्वारा जानवरों का पीछा करते और खाते (शिकार) हैं, यह सूँघते हुए कि वे ज़मीन पर कहाँ रहे होंगे। = English: Scientists think that ocelots follow and find animals to eat (prey) by smell, sniffing for where they've been on the ground.	Scaffolding is not a method of learning but rather an aid that provides support to individuals whom are undergoing a new learning experience such as using a new computer program or beginning a new project.	Skills are not learned by skimming, but are helpful for people learning new things, such as how to use a new computer program or start a new project.
Hindi: प्राचीनकाल से ही लोग सोने, चाँदी, और तांबे जैसे रासायनिक तत्वों के बारे में ही जानकारी रखते हैं, क्योंकि इन्हें प्रकृति में मूल स्वरूप में ढूँढा जा सकता है और इन्हें प्राथमिक उपकरणों के ज़रिए ढूँढना अपेक्षाकृत आसान है. = English: People have known about basic chemical elements such as gold, silver, and copper from antiquity, as these can all be discovered in nature in native form and are relatively simple to mine with primitive tools.	Travellers who had an easy time adjusting to the new culture sometimes have a particularly hard time readjusting to their native culture.	Those travellers who had a good chance to adapt to the new culture sometimes found it especially difficult to adapt to their original culture.
Hindi: हालाँकि, टुबर्क्युलोसिस वाले लोगों के पूरे समूह में एक्सडीआर-टीबी का प्रतिशत अभी भी कम है; दक्षिण अफ़्रीका में किसी भी विशेष समय पर कुल 330,000 लोगों में से 6,000 संक्रमित हैं. = English: However, the percentage of XDR-TB in the entire group of people with tuberculosis still seems to be low; 6,000 of the total 330,000 people infected at any particular moment in South Africa.	Persian has a relatively easy and mostly regular grammar.	Persian has mostly simple and regular grammar.
Hindi: उनकी दूसरी दौड़, विशाल स्लैलम, महिलाओं के समूह में 4: 41.30, 2: 11.60 मिनट के संयुक्त कार्यावधि के साथ पहले स्थान के फ़िनिशर ऑस्ट्रियन क्लाउडिया लोएश की तुलना में और 1: 09.02 मिनट हंगरी के नौवें स्थान के फ़िनिशर ग्नोगी दानी से दसवें स्थान पर धीमी गति से समाप्त हुई. = English: Her other race, the Giant Slalom, saw her finish in tenth in the women's sitting group with a combined run time of 4:41.30, 2:11.60 minutes slower than first place finisher Austrian Claudia Loesch and 1:09.02 minutes slower than the ninth place finisher Gyöngyi Dani of Hungary.	One bomb exploded outside the governor general's office.	A bomb exploded outside the office of the Governor General.
Hindi: जर्नल साइंस में गुरूवार को प्रकाशित एक अध्ययन ने इक्वाडोरियन गैलापागोस आइलैंड पर एक नई पक्षी प्रजाति के निर्माण की सूचना दी. = English: A study published on Thursday in the journal Science reported on formation of a new bird species on the Ecuadorean Galápagos Islands.	First among its 78 recommendations is that a new diplomatic initiative should be taken before the end of this year to secure Iraq’s borders against hostile interventions and to re-establish diplomatic relations with its neighbors.	The first of the 78 recommendations is that Iraq should secure its borders against hostile interventions and rebuild its diplomatic relations with its neighbours by the end of this year.
Hindi: हिब्रू परिवार का अधिकांश जीवन खुली हवा में बिता | = English: Most of the life of the Hebrew family happened in the open air.	Stirrups are supports for the rider's feet that hang down on either side of the saddle.	The stirrups are used to support the rider's feet, which are attached to the saddle on both sides and hang down.
Hindi: फिर, लक्खा सिंह ने भजन गायकी की कमान संभाली. = English: Then, Lakkha Singh took the lead in singing the bhajans.	Madagascar is by far the biggest, and a continent on its own when it comes to wildlife.	Madagascar is the largest continent with its own wildlife.
Hindi: इंटरनेट, लोगों और अंतर-परस्पर संचार, दोनों के तत्वों को मिलाता है. = English: The Internet combines elements of both mass and interpersonal communication.	The D-Day landings and the following battles had freed the north of France, but the south still wasn't free.	The D-Day landings and the subsequent battles had liberated northern France, but southern France was still not free.
Hindi: उत्तर में हेब्रोन जाने वाली भी कुछ बसें हैं, जो बाइबिल के कुलपतियों अब्राहम, आइसैक, जैकब और उनकी पत्नियों का पारंपरिक समाधि स्थल है। = English: There are also a few buses going north to Hebron, the traditional burial place of the Biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and their wives.	This offers a good opportunity to see the Aurora borealis, as the sky will be dark more or less around the clock.	It provides a good opportunity to see the aurora borealis, as the sky will be dark at that time.
Hindi: उन्होंने खुद को एकांत करा , जो कई समय तक रहा, यह मुहम्मद के आध्यात्मिक झुकाव की एक बहुत ही उज्ज्वल छवि देता है। = English: he cave itself, which survived the times, gives a very vivid image of Muhammad’s spiritual inclinations.	In 1989 he helped create The Simpsons with Brooks and Groening, and was responsible for hiring the show's first writing team.	in 1989 he helped create The Simpsons with Brooks and Gronkings and was responsible for appointing the first writing team of the show.
Hindi: यह क्षेत्र पशु और पक्षी प्रजातियों की एक बहुत व्यापक किस्मों का आवास है। = English: The area is also home to an extremely wide variety of animal and bird species.	The luminosity and rotation are used together to determine a star's Rossby number, which is related to plasma flow.	The Rossby number of a star, which is related to the flow of plasma, is determined by using its brightness and rotation together.
Hindi: कृपया इस जगह का सम्मान करें, अपने व्यवहार में गंभीरता रखें और इससे वही सम्मान दें जिसकी यह हकदार है. होलोकास्ट या नाज़ी लोगों के बारे में मज़ाक न करें. = English: Please treat the site with all of the dignity, solemnity and respect it deserves. Do not make jokes about the Holocaust or Nazis.	On the other hand, icy and snowy conditions are normal in many countries, and traffic goes on mostly uninterrupted all year round.	On the other hand, many countries have cold and snowy conditions year-round, and traffic is usually uninterrupted throughout the year.
Hindi: 1000 पाउंड से ज़्यादा वज़नी और करीब 17,500 मील प्रति घंटा की रफ़्तार से उड़ रहे दोनों सैटेलाइट धरती से 491 मील की ऊँचाई पर टकरा गए. = English: The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	Many common formats (APS family of formats, for example) are equal to or closely approximate this aspect ratio.	Many common formats (such as the APS family of formats) are approximately equal to or around this aspect ratio.
Hindi: अगर आप किसी औपचारिक रूप से व्यवस्थित बगीचे में जाते हैं, तो वहां से “नमूने” इकट्ठे करने पर भी आपको बिना किसी चर्चा के बाहर निकाल दिया जाता है. = English: If visiting a formally arranged garden, collecting "specimens" is also going to get you ejected, without discussion.	These theories look at what it is about certain people that make them want the things that they do and what things in their environment will make them do or not do certain things.	This theory looks at what are the things that make some people do the things they want to do and what are the things in their environment that make them do some things and not others.
Hindi: यह यकीनन पढ़ने को आसान बनाता है, हालांकि यह पता लगाने की आवश्यकता से लिखना कंही ज्यादा मुश्किल है कि क्या एक क्रिया या विशेषण का उपयोग सही ढंग से किया गया है। = English: It also arguably makes reading easier, though writing is somewhat complicated by the need to find out whether a verb or adjective is used in a substantivized form.	Dr. Tony Moll discovered the Extremely Drug Resistant Tuberculosis (XDR-TB) in the South African region KwaZulu-Natal.	Dr. Tony Molle discovered extremely drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB) in the South African region of KwaZulu-Natal.
Hindi: कथित तौर पर शामिल किए गए अन्य विषयों में यरुशलम की भविष्य की स्थिति शामिल है जो दोनों देशों और जॉर्डन घाटी समस्या के लिए पवित्र है. = English: Other topics covered reportedly include the future state of Jerusalem which is sacred to both nations and the Jordan Valley issue.	Lions, cheetahs and leopards are sometimes shy and you will see them better with binoculars.	Sometimes leopards, cheetahs and tigers are shy. You can see them well through binoculars.
Hindi: 15वीं सदी में यूरोपीय प्रभाव और उपनिवेशवाद की शुरुआत हुई, क्योंकि पुर्तगाली खोजकर्ता वास्को डी गामा ने यूरोप से भारत तक का समुद्री मार्ग खोज निकाला था. = English: European influence and colonialism began in the 15th century, as Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama found the Cape Route from Europe to India.	The other nominations include Best Picture, Director, Cinematography, Costume Design, Film-editing, Original Score, Production Design, Sound Editing, Sound Mixing and Original Screenplay.	Other nominations include Best Picture, Director, Cinematography, Costume Design, Film Editing, Original Score, Production Design, Sound Editing, Sound Mixing and Original Screenplay.
Hindi: बच्चों को कई वजहों से फ़ॉस्टर केयर में रखा जाता है, जिनमें अनदेखी करना, बुरा बर्ताव करना, और यहां तक कि ज़बरदस्ती वसूली करना भी शामिल है. = English: Children are placed in Foster Care for a wide variety of reasons that range from neglect, to abuse, and even to extortion.	First, most riders wear riding boots with a heel and a smooth, quite narrow, sole.	First, most riders wear high heels and a smooth, thin sole riding boots.
Hindi: मौजूद लोगों की संख्या इतनी बड़ी थी कि सेंट पीटर्स स्क्वायर में अंतिम संस्कार के लिए हर किसी के लिए पहुँच पाना मुमकिन नहीं था. = English: The number of people present was so large that it was not possible for everybody to gain access to the funeral in St. Peter's Square.	The Madhya Pradesh Police recovered the stolen laptop and mobile phone.	Madhya Pradesh police recovered stolen laptops and mobile phones.
Hindi: फारसी में ज्यादातर सरल और नियमित व्याकरण है। = English: Persian has a relatively easy and mostly regular grammar.	That didn't seem to make sense to me; it certainly wasn't fair.	I did not understand this; it was certainly not fair.
Hindi: कुछ फ़ेस्टिवल के लिए, म्यूज़िक फ़ेस्टिवल में आने वाले ज़्यादातर लोग आयोजन की जगह पर ही कैंप लगाने का फ़ैसला लेते हैं, और ज़्यादातर लोग इसे अपने अनुभव का अहम हिस्सा मानते हैं. = English: For some festivals, the vast majority of the attendants to music festivals decide to camp on site, and most attendants consider it a vital part of the experience.	The views presented are often cursory, general and oversimplified compared to the more detailed information available elsewhere.	The perspectives shown are often superficial, general, and overly simplistic compared to the more detailed information available elsewhere.
Hindi: पूरे संयुक्त राज्य अमेरिका में, मल्टीपल स्केलेरोसिस (MS) के लगभग 400,000 ज्ञात मामले हैं, जो युवा और मध्यम आयु वर्ग के वयस्कों में प्रमुख न्यूरोलॉजिकल बीमारी है. = English: Across the United States of America, there are approximately 400,000 known cases of Multiple Sclerosis (MS), leaving it as the leading neurological disease in younger and middle aged adults.	In France, voting has traditionally been a low-tech experience: voters isolate themselves in a booth, put a pre-printed sheet of paper indicating their candidate of choice into an envelope.	In France, voting has traditionally been a low-tech experience: voters go to a booth, separate themselves from others, and put a paper ballot in a sealed envelope that shows their choice of candidate.
Hindi: शेयर्ड टैक्सियाँ पारो (Nu 150) और पुनाखा (Nu 200) जैसी आस-पास की जगहों पर जाने के लिए तेज़ और आरामदायक साधन हैं. = English: Shared taxis are a quick and comfortable means to travel to nearby places, such as Paro (Nu 150) and Punakha (Nu 200).	The vertical clearance under the bridge is 15 meters. Construction was completed in August 2011, it didn't open to traffic until March 2017.	The clearance under the bridge is 15 meters. The construction was completed in August 2011, but it was not opened to traffic until March 2017.
Hindi: लोग अब कंप्यूटर स्क्रीन पर संदेश लिखते हैं, शार्पनर का उपयोग करने की आवश्यकता नहीं पड़ती। = English: People now write messages on computer screens, never having to come close to a sharpener.	As light pollution in their heyday was not the kind of problem it is today, they are usually located in cities or at campuses, easier to reach than those built in modern times.	Because their early days were not plagued by the same level of pollution as today, they are usually located in cities or compounds, where modern times built places are easier to reach than in the past.
Hindi: शेयर्ड टैक्सियाँ पारो (Nu 150) और पुनाखा (Nu 200) जैसी आस-पास की जगहों पर जाने के लिए तेज़ और आरामदायक साधन हैं. = English: Shared taxis are a quick and comfortable means to travel to nearby places, such as Paro (Nu 150) and Punakha (Nu 200).	Italy's national football, along with German national football team is the second most successful team in the world and were the FIFA World Cup champions in 2006.	In terms of success, the Italian national football team is second only to Germany's national football team, which won the FIFA World Cup in 2006.
Hindi: इस हफ्ते की शुरुआत में, एक पुलिस हेलीकॉप्टर दुर्घटना में तीन लोगों की मौत हो गई और तीन और घायल हो गए. = English: Earlier this week, a police helicopter crash killed three people and wounded three more.	South Shetland Islands, discovered in 1819, are claimed by several nations and have the most bases, with sixteen active in 2020.	South Shetland, which was discovered in 1819, has been claimed by several countries and has the highest number of bases, including sixteen active bases in 2020.
Hindi: चूंकि अंतर जिला बसें अक्सर भरी होती हैं, इसलिए कुछ दिन पहले टिकट खरीदना उचित होता है. = English: As the inter-district buses are often full, it is advisable to purchase a ticket a few days in advance.	In 1895, after defeat in the First Sino-Japanese War (1894-1895), the Qing government signs the Treaty of Shimonoseki, by which it cedes sovereignty over Taiwan to Japan, which rules the island until 1945.	In 1895, after the First Sino-Japanese War (1894-1895), the Qing government signed the Shimonoseki Treaty, which ceded sovereignty over Taiwan to Japan, which ruled the island until 1945.
Hindi: कुल 17,000 द्वीपों में से, इंडोनेशियाई भोजन एक व्यापक शब्द है, जो देश भर में पाए जाने वाले विभिन्न प्रकार के क्षेत्रीय व्यंजनों को अपने भीतर समाहित करता है। = English: With 17,000 islands to choose from, Indonesian food is an umbrella term covering a vast variety of regional cuisines found across the nation.	Del Potro had the early advantage in the second set, but this too required a tie break after reaching 6-6.	Del Potro had an early advantage in the second set, but it was a tiebreak that decided it at 6-6.
Hindi: “जब ऐमी और मॅकॉर्ड (1998) ने वेबसाइटों पर दर्शकों की प्रतिक्रियाओं की जांच-पड़ताल की थी, तब “निजी भागीदारी” और “सतत संबंध” को भी प्रेरणा देने वाले नए पहलूओं के तौर पर पहचान हुई. = English: “Personal involvement” and “continuing relationships” were also identified as new motivation aspects by Eighmey and McCord (1998) when they investigated audience reactions to websites.	Ancient Roman meals couldn't have included foods that came to Europe from America or from Asia in later centuries.	Ancient Roman food could not have included food items that arrived in Europe from America or Asia in later centuries.
Hindi: उन्होंने अफवाहों को “राजनीतिक बकवास और मूर्खतापूर्ण” कहा. = English: He referred to the rumors as "political chatter and silliness".	Yet eighty percent of our goods were taxed through tariffs in Central American countries. we treat you.	While our goods are taxed at eighty percent by Central American countries, we still treat you.
Hindi: उन्होंने कहा “कि अब हमारे पास 4 महीने उम्र वाले चूहे हैं जिन्हें मधुमेह नहीं है जो मधुमेह के रोगी थे। ” = English: "We now have 4-month-old mice that are non-diabetic that used to be diabetic," he added.	They provide greater stability for the rider but can have safety concerns due to the potential for a rider's feet to get stuck in them.	They provide more stability to the driver but a driver's feet can get stuck in them, which can raise safety concerns.
Hindi: डुवैल, जो विवाहित है और उसके दो वयस्क बच्चे हैं, उसने मिलर पर बड़ा असर नहीं किया, जिस से कहानी संबंधित है. = English: Duvall, who is married with two adult children, did not leave a big impression on Miller, to whom the story was related.	Re-entry shock comes on sooner than culture shock (there's less of a honeymoon phase), lasts longer, and can be more severe.	Re-entry shock is a cultural shock that comes sooner (the honeymoon period is shorter), lasts longer, and can be more serious.
Hindi: श्रमिकों को अक्सर किसी भी निर्णय के लिए अपने वरिष्ठ अधिकारियों की मंजूरी लेनी चाहिए, और उनसे बिना किसी सवाल के अपने वरिष्ठों के निर्देशों का पालन करने की अपेक्षा की जाती है. = English: Workers must often get their superiors' approval for any decisions they make, and are expected to obey their superiors' instructions without question.	Beyond Wednesday's event, Carpanedo competed in two individual races at the Championships.	After the Wednesday event, Capablanca took part in two individual races in the championship.
Hindi: यह शहर देश के बाकी शहरों से अलग है क्योंकि यह किसी अफ्रीकी शहर की बजाय अरब शहर लगता है. = English: The city is in stark contrast to the rest of the country's cities, because it has more of an Arabic flair than of an African.	The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	The concept originated in China, where the peony was the favorite flower.
Hindi: वे अमेरिकी स्ट्रीट औपनिवेशिक शासन को करों का भुगतान करने के लिए मजबूर कर रहे थे, जो कि व्यय का एक बड़ा हिस्सा और फिल स्ट्रीट सरकार द्वारा वॉल स्ट्रीट बैंकिंग घरों के माध्यम से फिलीपीन सरकार के नाम पर लगाए गए बॉन्ड पर ब्याज को धोखा देने के लिए था। = English: They were compelled to pay taxes to the U.S. colonial regime to defray a major part of the expenditures and the interest on bonds floated in the name of the Philippine government through the Wall Street banking houses.	She directed officers to her black Oldsmobile Intrigue which was 500 feet away.	He took the officers to his black Oldsmobile Intrigue, which was 500 feet away.
Hindi: उनका सिंगापुर के उप-प्रधान मंत्री वोंग कान सेंग ने स्वागत किया और उन्होंने सिंगापुर के प्रधानमंत्री ली सिएन लूंग के साथ व्यापार और आतंकवाद के मामले पर बातचीत की. = English: He was greeted by Singapore's Deputy Prime Minister Wong Kan Seng and discussed trade and terrorism issues with the Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.	Infectious diseases themselves, or dangerous animals that can injure or kill people by force, do not usually qualify as pests.	Infectious diseases, or dangerous animals that can injure or kill people by force, are not usually considered insects.
Hindi: हालांकि तीन लोग घर के अन्दर थे फिर भी जब कार टकराई तब किसी को भी चोट नहीं आई। = English: Although three people were inside the house when the car impacted it, none of them were hurt.	His research showed that if a hormone was administered it would speed up the baby's foetal lung maturation.	Their research found that if the hormone is stimulated, it will speed up the maturation of the baby's fetal lungs.
Hindi: उनकी दूसरी दौड़, विशाल स्लैलम, महिलाओं के समूह में 4: 41.30, 2: 11.60 मिनट के संयुक्त कार्यावधि के साथ पहले स्थान के फ़िनिशर ऑस्ट्रियन क्लाउडिया लोएश की तुलना में और 1: 09.02 मिनट हंगरी के नौवें स्थान के फ़िनिशर ग्नोगी दानी से दसवें स्थान पर धीमी गति से समाप्त हुई. = English: Her other race, the Giant Slalom, saw her finish in tenth in the women's sitting group with a combined run time of 4:41.30, 2:11.60 minutes slower than first place finisher Austrian Claudia Loesch and 1:09.02 minutes slower than the ninth place finisher Gyöngyi Dani of Hungary.	Research has found that females are two times more likely to have MS then males.	Research has found that women are twice as likely as men to develop MS.
Hindi: अंदरूनी विषाक्तता का तुरंत पता नहीं चलता है. इसके लक्षण सामान्य होते हैं जैसे कि उल्टी आना, इसलिए इसका तुरंत निदान नहीं किया जा सकता है. = English: Internal poisoning may not be immediately apparent. Symptoms, such as vomiting are sufficiently general that an immediate diagnosis cannot be made.	Finally, there are many small cats (including loose pet cats) that eat the far more numerous small prey like insects, rodents, lizards, and birds.	Finally, there are many small cats (including loose-pet cats) that eat insects, rodents, spiders and birds, among other small creatures.
Hindi: दिखाए गए दृष्टिकोण हर कहीं उपलब्ध ज़्यादा विस्तृत जानकारी की तुलना में अक्सर सतही, सामान्य और अति-साधारण होते हैं. = English: The views presented are often cursory, general and oversimplified compared to the more detailed information available elsewhere.	It was at this time that the transfer of the title of Fashion Capital from Constantinople to Paris was made.	It was a time when Constantinople was replaced by Paris as the fashion capital.
Hindi: कोखमो घाटी - चिली में चढ़ाई की खास जगह है, जिसे दक्षिणी अमेरिका के योसेमाइट के नाम से भी जाना जाता है, यहाँ खड़ी चट्टानें और ग्रेनाइट की कई तरह की दीवारें हैं. = English: Cochamó Valley - Chile's premier climbing destination, known as the Yosemite of South America, with a variety of granite big walls and crags.	In a partnership of NPWS and the Sporting Shooters Association of Australia (NSW) Inc, qualified volunteers were recruited, under the Sporting Shooters Association's hunting program.	NPWS and the Australian Sporting Shooters Association (NSW) have partnered in a talent hunt to recruit skilled volunteers.
Hindi: सभी उम्र और पृष्ठभूमि वाले लोगों के लिए विमान में यात्रा करना एक डरावना अनुभव हो सकता है. खास कर, अगर उन्होंने पहले कभी हवाई यात्रा न की हो या फिर हवाई यात्रा के दौरान किसी दर्दनाक घटना का सामना करना पड़ा हो. = English: Travelling by plane can be a scary experience for people of all ages and backgrounds, particularly if they've not flown before or have experienced a traumatic event.	It had been scheduled to be cut down on Tuesday, but was saved after an emergency court ruling.	It was scheduled to be cut on Tuesday, but an emergency court decision saved it.
Hindi: हांगकांग द्वीप के शहरी विकास का ज्यादातर हिस्सा पुनः निर्मित भूमि पर उत्तरी तट के साथ अधिक रूप से भरा हुआ है। = English: The great majority of Hong Kong Island's urban development is densely packed on reclaimed land along the northern shore.	Police said that the body appeared to have been there for about a day.	Police said the body was about a day old.
Hindi: हलडारश्वीक  गाँव से पास के एस्टूरॉय का द्वीप नज़र आता है और इसमें एक असाधारण अष्टकोणीय चर्च है। = English: The village of Haldarsvík offer views of the nearby island Eysturoy and has an unusual octagonal church.	Six hostages, including the children and elderly, were released early, as were the Filipino photographers.	Six hostages, including children and the elderly, were released early, and Filipino photographers were also released.
Hindi: वाइल्डलाइफ़ हैबिटेंट्स के रूप में काम करने वाली रेती और तटों को बनाने के लिए गाद ज़रूरी थी. = English: This sediment was necessary for creating sandbars and beaches, which served as wildlife habitats.	Booking in advance gives the traveller peace of mind that they will have somewhere to sleep once they arrive at their destination.	Booking in advance gives the traveller peace of mind that at least a place to rest will be available at the destination.
Hindi: 1989 में उसने ब्रुक्स और ग्रोएनिंग के साथ द सिम्पसन को रचने में मदद की और वह शो की पहली राइटिंग टीम को नियुक्त करने के लिए उत्तरदायी था. = English: In 1989 he helped create The Simpsons with Brooks and Groening, and was responsible for hiring the show's first writing team.	A walking safari (also called a "bush walk", "hiking safari", or going "footing") consists of hiking, either for a few hours or several days.	A walking safari (also known as a "bush walk", "hiking safari" or "walkabout") involves hiking for a few days or several days.
Hindi: कोई भी यात्री युद्ध शेत्र घोषित देश की यात्रा की योजना बनाने वाले हो तो उन्हेो पेशेवर प्रशिक्षण प्राप्त करना चाहिए। = English: Anyone planning a visit to a country that could be considered a war zone should get professional training.	Five minutes into the display a wind starts rolling in, about a minute later, the wind is reaching 70km/h... then the rain comes, but so hard and so large that it slaps your skin like a needle, then hail fell from the sky, people panicking and screaming and running over each other.	The air starts blowing in five minutes, about a minute later, the wind is blowing at 70 km/hr... then the rain comes, but so strong and so big drops that it is piercing your skin like a needle, then the hail falls from the sky, people panic, scream and the chaos breaks out.
Hindi: राष्ट्रीय तूफ़ान केंद्र (एनएचसी) का कहना है कि इस समय जैरी का ज़मीन को कोई खतरा नहीं है। = English: The National Hurricane Center (NHC) says that at this point Jerry poses no threat to land.	Willingness of foreign governments to honour these documents is just as widely variable.	The willingness of foreign governments to honor these documents is as widely variable as the documents themselves.
Hindi: वहीं दूसरी ओर, कई देशों में ठंडी और बर्फ़ भरी परिस्थितियां होना आम बात है, और ट्रैफ़िक पूरे साल ज़्यादातर बिना रुकावट चलता रहता है. = English: On the other hand, icy and snowy conditions are normal in many countries, and traffic goes on mostly uninterrupted all year round.	For instance, they didn't have corn, nor tomatoes, nor potatoes, nor cocoa, and no ancient Roman ever tasted a turkey.	For example, they had neither corn nor tomatoes, potatoes, and cocoa, and no ancient Roman ever tasted a turkey.
Hindi: दिखाए गए दृष्टिकोण हर कहीं उपलब्ध ज़्यादा विस्तृत जानकारी की तुलना में अक्सर सतही, सामान्य और अति-साधारण होते हैं. = English: The views presented are often cursory, general and oversimplified compared to the more detailed information available elsewhere.	The main Amazon River is 6,387 km (3,980 miles). It collects water from thousands of smaller rivers.	The main Amazon River is 6,387 km (3,980 miles) long. It has thousands of smaller rivers flowing into it.
Hindi: उन्होंने डीएनए को रेडियोएक्टिव फॉस्फोरस के साथ विभोजी में करने या विभोजी के प्रोटीन को रेडियोधर्मी सल्फर के साथ चिह्नित करते हुए दो प्रयोग किए। = English: They did two experiments marking either the DNA in the phage with a radioactive phosphorus or the protein of the phage with radioactive sulfur.	USA Gymnastics supports an independent investigation that may shine light on how abuse of the proportion described so courageously by the survivors of Larry Nassar could have gone undetected for so long and embraces any necessary and appropriate changes.	USA Gymnastics supports an independent investigation that could shed light on how Larry Nassar's survivors could have been so courageous in telling their stories and how long it could have taken for any necessary and appropriate changes to be made.
Hindi: तिब्बती बौद्ध धर्म बुद्ध की शिक्षाओं पर आधारित है, लेकिन प्रेम के महायान मार्ग और भारतीय योग से बहुत सारी तकनीकों द्वारा इसे बढ़ाया गया. = English: The Tibetan Buddhism is based on the teachings of Buddha, but were extended by the mahayana path of love and by a lot of techniques from Indian Yoga.	The stretch between Point Marion and Fairmont presents the most challenging driving conditions on the Buffalo-Pittsburgh Highway, passing frequently through isolated backwoods terrain.	The part of the Buffalo-Pittsburgh highway between Point Marion and Fairmount is the most challenging part of driving, where the road often passes through the middle of the forest.
Hindi: यह अवधारणा चीन से आई थी जहाँ बेर के फूल पसंदीदा फूल होते थे। = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	The commission was Martelly's response to widespread anti-regime protests that started in October.	The commission was formed in response to widespread government-led protests that began in October.
Hindi: पहला ज्ञात परिवहन पैदल चलना था, इंसानों ने होमो इरेक्टस (यानी अपराइट मैन) के उद्भव के साथ बीस लाख साल पहले पैदल चलने की शुरुआत की थी. = English: The first known transportation was walking, humans began walking upright two million years ago with the emergence of Homo Erectus (meaning upright man).	Subsistence agriculture is agriculture carried out for the production of enough food to meet just the needs of the agriculturalist and his/her family.	Subsistence agriculture is only done to meet the needs of the farmer and his family and to produce enough food.
Hindi: इसके राज्यों के बीच कर कानूनों और शुल्कों को ओवरराइड करने का भी कोई अधिकार नहीं था. = English: It also had no authority to override tax laws and tariffs between states.	Curtis Cooper, a mathematician and computer science professor at the University of Central Missouri, has discovered the largest known prime number to date on January 25.	Professor Kirsten Cooper, a mathematician and computer scientist at Central Missouri University, discovered the largest known prime number on January 25.
Hindi: हम फोस्टर केयर सिस्टम को इन बच्चों के लिए एक सुरक्षित क्षेत्र मानते हैं। = English: We perceive the Foster Care System to be a safety zone for these children.	Late on Sunday, the United States President Donald Trump, in a statement delivered via the press secretary, announced US troops would be leaving Syria.	On Sunday evening, US President Donald Trump announced through a statement by Press Secretary that the US army will be leaving Syria.
Hindi: वे गुण जो किसी उप-संस्कृति को अलग बनाते हैं, जैसे कि भाषा, सौंदर्य, धर्म, राजनीति, यौन, भूगोल या कई सारे कारकों का मिश्रण हो सकते हैं. = English: The qualities that determine a subculture as distinct may be linguistic, aesthetic, religious, political, sexual, geographical, or a combination of factors.	Mass car ownership also leads to a higher incidence of accidents on the roads, which leads to the invention of new techniques in healthcare for repairing damaged bodies.	The high number of accidents on the roads is due to the high number of car owners, which has led to the invention of new techniques in health care to repair the body's broken parts.
Hindi: वहीं स्पेक्ट्रम का दूसरा सिरा, कोई व्यक्ति किसी ऐसे अपिरिचित व्यक्ति का रूप लेता है जिसे लगता है कि उसे टीम में सब कुछ बदल देना चाहिए और उसे अपने हिसाब से बनाना चाहिए. = English: At the other end of the spectrum, one morphs into an unrecognizable individual that feels he or she must change everything the team has been doing and make it their own.	The park covers 19,500 km² and is divided in 14 different ecozones, each supporting different wildlife.	This park is spread over 19,500 square kilometers and has 14 different eco zones, each with its own wildlife.
Hindi: इसे तेज़ी से प्राप्त करने का एकमात्र तरीका इसे चेक किए गए सामान के रूप में भेजना था। एयरलाइन के नियम उन्हें बिना यात्री के सामान भेजने की अनुमति नहीं देंगे, और यहीं पर आप काम आएँगे। = English: The only way to get it through faster was to send it as checked luggage. Airline regulations will not allow them to send luggage without a passenger, which is where you come in.	The accused are named as Baba Kanjar, Bhutha Kanjar, Rampro Kanjar, Gaza Kanjar and Vishnu Kanjar.	The accused are Baba Kanjar, Bhau Kanjar, Rampro Kanjar, Gaja Kanjar and Vishnu Kanjar.
Hindi: अंतरिक्ष में उपग्रह को कॉल मिलता है और फिर इसे वापस नीचे, उसी समय परावर्तित करता है. = English: The satellite in space gets the call and then reflects it back down, almost instantly.	Earlier the Chinese news agency Xinhua reported a plane to be hijacked.	Chinese news agency Xinhua had earlier reported an aircraft hijacking.
Hindi: इसी तरह, पुरुषों के लिए घुटनों को ढँकने वाले ट्राउज़र पहनना ज़रूरी है. = English: Along the same line, men are required to wear trousers covering the knees.	Out of 1,400 people polled prior to the 2010 federal election, those who oppose Australia becoming a republic grew by 8 per cent since 2008.	1,400 people voted in the 2010 federal election, an increase of 8 percent from 2008, the year Australians voted against becoming a republic.
Hindi: मेडागास्कर सबसे बड़ा अपना खुद का वन्यजीवन वाला महाद्वीप है. = English: Madagascar is by far the biggest, and a continent on its own when it comes to wildlife.	Lions are the most social cats, living in large groups called prides.	Lions are the largest social cats that live in pride.
Hindi: महाराजा और महारानी के ख़िलाफ़ चीखते-चिल्लाते लोगों की भीड़ से घिरी एक गाड़ी में सफर करते हुए वे लोग पेरिस वापस आए. = English: In a carriage, they traveled back to Paris surrounded by a mob of people screaming and shouting threats against the King and Queen.	Spokesman for Medecines Sans Frontiere Richard Veerman said: "Angola is heading for its worst ever outbreak and the situation remains very bad in Angola," he said.	The spokesman for Médecins Sans Frontières, Richard VIRMAM, said: “The epidemic is now at its worst in Angola and the situation is very bad.”
Hindi: यह कई मामलों में रोगसूचक उपचार की तरह ही है। हालाँकि, अगर हम केवल अस्थायी समाधान नहीं चाहते हैं, तो हमें समस्याओं की जड़ को ढूँढ कर उन्हें निष्क्रिय करना चाहिए। = English: This is just like symptomatic treatment in many cases. However, if we do not only want a temporary solution, then we should find the root of the problems, and we should deactivate them.	Also after the Revolution occupations were open to all male applicants allowing the most ambitious and successful to succeed.	And, after the revolution, business was open to all male applicants, and the most ambitious and successful could succeed.
Hindi: पुलिस अधीक्षक चंद्र शेखर सोलंकी ने कहा कि आरोपी ढके हुए चेहरे के साथ अदालत में पेश हुए थे. = English: Police superintendent Chandra Shekhar Solanki said the accused appeared in court with covered faces.	Cuomo, 53, began his governorship earlier this year and signed a bill last month legalizing same-sex marriage.	This year, 53-year-old Kwon began his rule and last month signed a bill legalizing same-sex marriage.
Hindi: मध्य युग के अंत में पश्चिमी यूरोप ने अपनी शैली विकसित करना शुरू कर दिया. धर्मयुद्ध के परिणामस्वरूप उस समय के सबसे बड़े विकास में से एक लोगों ने कपड़ों को बाँधने के लिए बटन का उपयोग करना शुरू किया = English: towards the end of the Middle Ages western Europe began to develop their own style. one of the biggest developments of the time as a result of the crusades people began to use buttons to fasten clothing.	The great majority of Hong Kong Island's urban development is densely packed on reclaimed land along the northern shore.	most of the urban development on the Hong Kong island is on reclaimed land along the northern coast.
Hindi: साथ ही, r और rr का अलग-अलग तरीके से ही करें: caro का मतलब है प्रिय, जबकि carro का मतलब है रथ. = English: Also, make sure to pronounce r and rr differently: caro means dear, whereas carro means chariot.	Comets may possibly have been a source of water delivery to the earth along with organic matter that can form proteins and support life.	Comets may have been the source of water on Earth, says study.
Hindi: डिप्टी इंस्पेक्टर डी के आर्य ने कहा, “हमने स्विस महिला के साथ बलात्कार करने वाले पाँच लोगों को गिरफ्तार किया है और उनसे उस महिला का मोबाइल और लैपटॉप बरामद किया है”. = English: Deputy Inspector General D K Arya said, "We have arrested five persons who raped the Swiss woman and recovered her mobile and laptop".	All animals that originally arrived in the islands came here either by swimming, flying or floating.	All the animals that came to the islands originally came here by swimming, flying or drifting.
Hindi: समय के साथ, जैसे-जैसे नई आबादी नए माहौल में ढलती जाती है, वह भी दूसरी आबादी की तरह अनदेखी करना शुरू कर देती है. = English: Over time, as the new population begins to adapt to their new environment, they start to look less and less like the other population.	The number of people present was so large that it was not possible for everybody to gain access to the funeral in St. Peter's Square.	The number of people present was so great that it was impossible for everyone to reach Saint Peter's Square for the funeral.
Hindi: सामान के ट्रांसपोर्ट के लिए जहाज़ों का इस्तेमाल करना समुद्रों के एक सिरे से दूसरे सिरे तक बड़ी मात्रा में लोगों और सामान को लाने और ले जाने का बहुत ज़्यादा प्रभावी तरीका है. = English: Using ships to transport goods is by far the most efficient way to move large amounts of people and goods across oceans.	Children are placed in Foster Care for a wide variety of reasons that range from neglect, to abuse, and even to extortion.	Children are placed in foster care for a variety of reasons, including neglect, abuse, and even kidnapping.
Hindi: महिलाओं को यह बात समझ लेनी चाहिए कि सांस्कृतिक मतभेदों के कारण उन्हें उत्पीड़न का सामना करना पड़ सकता है और ऐसा हो सकता है कि उनका पीछा हो या फिर कोई उनकी बाँह ज़बरदस्ती पकड़ ले, इत्यादि। = English: Women should realize that cultural differences may result in what they would consider harassment and it is not uncommon to be followed, grabbed by the arm, etc.	The original population hasn't changed at all, they still need the same adaptations as before.	The original population has not changed, they still want to be accommodated.
Hindi: खारे पानी के मगरमच्छ समुद्र में आम तौर पर नहीं रहते हैं. ये अक्सर रॉकम्प्टन के उत्तर में नदी के मुहाने पर देखे जा सकते हैं. = English: Saltwater Crocodiles do not actively live in the ocean, their primary habitat is in river estuaries north from Rockhampton.	The harbor was the site of an infamous naval standoff in 1889 when seven ships from Germany, the US, and Britain refused to leave the harbor.	In 1889, this port was the scene of a notorious naval standoff when seven ships of Germany, the United States and Britain refused to leave the port.
Hindi: “दिन में ये आस-पास की सतहों से ज़्यादा ठंडी और रात में गर्म होती हैं. = English: "They are cooler than the surrounding surface in the day and warmer at night.	There are of course Christian theological explanations for this tradition, but it may well be a pre-Christian Spring and Fertility ritual.	"Christian theology provides an explanation for this tradition, but a pre-Christian spring and fertility rite is also possible.
Hindi: इसे अगले 40 सालों तक चलना था और यह असली में, छद्म सेनाओं द्वारा, अफ़्रीका से लेकर एशिया तक की युद्धभूमियों पर, अफ़गानिस्तान, क्यूबा और दूसरी कई जगहों पर होना था. = English: It was to last for the next 40 years and would be fought for real, by proxy armies, on battlefields from Africa to Asia, in Afghanistan, Cuba and many other places.	The community irritation led to current efforts to draft a policy regarding sexual content for the site which hosts millions of openly-licensed media.	Community outrage led to the site's policy on sexual content being drafted, which hosts millions of openly licensed media files.
Hindi: दूरस्थ स्थानों में, सेल फ़ोन कवरेज नहीं होने से, एक सेटेलाइट फ़ोन आपका एकमात्र विकल्प हो सकता है. = English: In remote locations, without cell phone coverage, a satellite phone may be your only option.	The top of the tower was special sanctuary for the god.	The top of the tower was a special shrine for the god.
Hindi: उत्तरी मैरिएनस इमरजेंसी प्रबंधन कार्यलय की ओर से कहा गया कि राष्ट्र में नुकसान की कोई सूचना प्राप्त नहीं हुई थी. = English: The Northern Marianas emergency management office said that there were no damages reported in the nation.	"I was moved every time we did a rehearsal on this, from the bottom of my heart."	“Every time we practiced, I was moved to tears.”
Hindi: अंतिम स्कोर एक अंक की जीत थी, 21 और 20, ऑल ब्लैक्स का 15 गेम लगातार जीतने का सिलसिला समाप्त हुआ । = English: The final score was a one-point victory, 21 to 20, ending the All Blacks' 15 game winning streak.	Huhne and Pryce are scheduled to appear at the Westminster Magistrates Court on February 16.	Huna and Price are due to appear in Westminster Magistrates Court on February 16.
Hindi: 4.2 से 3.9 मिलियन वर्ष पूर्व से आस्ट्रेलोपोपिथेकस जीवाश्मो में बाइपैडल विशेषज्ञत पाई जाती है हालांकि हो सकता है 7 मिलियन वर्ष पहले से सहेंथ्रोपस दो पैरों पर चल सकता था | = English: Bipedal specializations are found in Australopithecus fossils from 4.2-3.9 million years ago, although Sahelanthropus may have walked on two legs as early as seven million years ago.	There's a tradition to pass the Easter night awake at some exposed point to see the sunrise.	Here, Easter is celebrated with a vigil of the entire night to see the sunrise.
Hindi: अंदरूनी विषाक्तता का तुरंत पता नहीं चलता है. इसके लक्षण सामान्य होते हैं जैसे कि उल्टी आना, इसलिए इसका तुरंत निदान नहीं किया जा सकता है. = English: Internal poisoning may not be immediately apparent. Symptoms, such as vomiting are sufficiently general that an immediate diagnosis cannot be made.	The definition has geographic variations, where the age limit might be shorter in places such as North America than in Europe.	The definition varies geographically, with the age limit being lower in places such as North America than in Europe.
Hindi: यह अवधारणा चीन से आई थी जहाँ बेर के फूल पसंदीदा फूल होते थे। = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	Scientists hope to understand how planets form, especially how the Earth formed, since comets collided with the Earth long ago.	Scientists hope to understand how planets are formed, especially how the Earth was formed, since comets collided with the Earth long before.
Hindi: वहीं स्पेक्ट्रम का दूसरा सिरा, कोई व्यक्ति किसी ऐसे अपिरिचित व्यक्ति का रूप लेता है जिसे लगता है कि उसे टीम में सब कुछ बदल देना चाहिए और उसे अपने हिसाब से बनाना चाहिए. = English: At the other end of the spectrum, one morphs into an unrecognizable individual that feels he or she must change everything the team has been doing and make it their own.	All nouns, alongside the word Sie for you, always begin with a capital letter, even in the middle of a sentence.	All nouns starting with SAI, whether in the middle of a sentence or not, always begin with a capital letter.
Hindi: बाली में इस एजेंडे के अन्य विषयों में दुनिया के बचे हुए जंगलों को बचाने, और ऐसी तकनीकों का आदान प्रदान करना का विषय शामिल है जिससे कि विकासशील देशों को कम प्रदूषणकारी तरीकों से आगे बढ़ने में मदद मिले। = English: Other subjects on the agenda in Bali include saving the world's remaining forests, and sharing technologies to help developing nations grow in less-polluting ways.	Final results from Namibian presidential and parliamentary elections have indicated that the incumbent president, Hifikepunye Pohamba, has been reelected by a large margin.	The final results of the Namibian presidential and parliamentary elections indicate that incumbent President Hifikepunye Pohamba has been re-elected by a large margin.
Hindi: यह बीमारी सूअरों के कारण होती है, जो बाद में मच्छरों के माध्यम से मनुष्यों में आती है। = English: The disease is carried by pigs, which then migrates to humans through mosquitos.	More traditional churches often hold an Easter Vigil on Saturday night during the Easter weekend, with the congregations often breaking into celebration at the stroke of midnight to celebrate Christ's resurrection.	In more traditional churches, Easter Vigil is held on Saturday night of Easter Weekend, where people celebrate the resurrection of Christ by starting the celebration at midnight.
Hindi: वैज्ञानिकों का कहना है कि टकराव के कारण हुआ विस्फोट बड़े पैमाने पर हुआ था. = English: Scientists say the explosion caused by the collision was massive.	The Haitian Institute for Justice and Democracy has referenced independent studies that suggest the Nepalese UN peacekeeping battalion unknowingly brought the disease to Haiti.	The Haitian Institute for Justice and Democracy has cited independent studies to suggest that the Nepalese UN peace-keeping battalion inadvertently brought the disease to Haiti.
Hindi: अगर आपने फ़िल्म नेशनल ट्रेज़र देखी है, तो आपको लगेगा कि स्वतंत्रता के घोषणा-पत्र के पीछे एक ख़ज़ाने का नक्शा लिखा गया था. = English: If you have watched the movie National Treasure, you may think a treasure map was written on the back of the Declaration of Independence.	The great pyramid was created to honor the Pharaoh Khufu, and many of the smaller pyramids, tombs, and temples were built to honor Khufu's wives and family members.	The Great Pyramid of Giza was built in honor of Pharaoh Khufu, and many smaller pyramids, tombs, and temples were built in honor of Khufu's wives and family members.
Hindi: अंदरूनी विषाक्तता का तुरंत पता नहीं चलता है. इसके लक्षण सामान्य होते हैं जैसे कि उल्टी आना, इसलिए इसका तुरंत निदान नहीं किया जा सकता है. = English: Internal poisoning may not be immediately apparent. Symptoms, such as vomiting are sufficiently general that an immediate diagnosis cannot be made.	Water is spilling over the levee in a section 100 feet wide.	A section of the water level is spreading outwards, 100 feet wide.
Hindi: आपिया समोआ की राजधानी है। यह शहर उपोलू द्वीप पर है और इसकी आबादी 40,000 से भी कम है। = English: Apia is the capital of Samoa. The town is on the island of Upolu and has a population of just under 40,000.	After the accident occurred, Gibson was transported to a hospital but died shortly afterwards.	After the accident Gibson was taken to hospital but died shortly afterwards.
Hindi: कूरियर कंपनियों को सामान को जल्दी से और अच्छे तरीके से पहुंचाने के लिए भुगतान किया जाता है। अक्सर, व्यापारिक दस्तावेजों, व्यापारिक वस्तुओं या मरम्त के लिए प्रयोग किये जाने वाले स्पेयर पार्ट्स को समय से पहुँचाने में बहुत महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका होती है। = English: Courier companies are well paid for delivering things quickly. Frequently, time is very important with business documents, merchandise or spare parts for an urgent repair.	Dustin "Goldust" Runnels commented that "Luna was as freaky as me...maybe even more...love her and will miss her...hopefully she's in a better place."	Dustin “Goldust” Runnels commented that “Luna was just as weird as me...maybe even weirder...I loved her and will miss her...hopefully she's in a better place.”
Hindi: उनके पैरों में पपड़ियाँ और पंजे हैं, वे अंडे देते हैं, और वे किसी टी-रेक्स की तरह अपने दो पीछे वाले पैरों पर चलते हैं. = English: They have feet with scales and claws, they lay eggs, and they walk on their two back legs like a T-Rex.	He did not set a figure for the cuts, saying they will be made based on China's economic output.	By saying that they will be built on the basis of China's economic production, they did not set a figure for cuts.
Hindi: द्वीपों में मूल रूप से आए सभी जानवर यहाँ तैरकर, उड़कर या बहकर आए हैं. = English: All animals that originally arrived in the islands came here either by swimming, flying or floating.	Please remember that you are essentially visiting a mass grave site, as well as a site that has an almost incalculable meaning to a significant portion of the world's population.	Please remember that you are going to a place that is a collective graveyard, as well as a place that has innumerable meanings for a significant portion of the world's population.
Hindi: कुछ लोगों ये सोचते थे की कि वह सही था लेकिन बहुत से लोग इसके विपरीत मानते थे; की सौर मंडल सूर्य (और यहां तक कि अन्य सितारों) सहित पृथ्वी के चारों और चक्कर लगता था । = English: Some people thought he was right but many people believed the opposite; that the Solar System moved around the Earth, including the Sun (and even the other stars).	I lost my sister and her friend, and on my way there were two disabled people in wheelchairs, people just jumping over and pushing them," Armand Versace said.	Armand Vassal said, “I lost my sister and her friend, and there were two disabled people on the wheelchair, and people were jumping on them and pushing them”.
Hindi: कार्यस्थल सामंजस्य महत्वपूर्ण होता है, जो व्यक्तिगत उपलब्धियों की प्रशंसा की बजाय सामूहिक प्रयास पर ज़ोर देता है. = English: Workplace harmony is crucial, emphasizing group effort rather than praising individual accomplishments.	Sleep interruption is the process of purposefully awakening during your normal sleep period and falling asleep a short time later (10–60 minutes).	Sleep interruption is the process of waking you up during your normal sleep period and it lasts for a short time (10-60 minutes).
Hindi: पूरी तरह से गैर-मानवीय जानवरों पर ढोकर लाए जाने के बाद, जंगली बच्चा करीब-करीब वैसा ही बर्ताव (शारीरिक सीमाओं के भीतर) करते हैं जैसा खास-देखभाल वाले जानवर करते हैं, जैसे कि इंसानों से डर या बेपरवाही. = English: When completely brought up by non-human animals, the feral child exhibits behaviors (within physical limits) almost entirely like those of the particular care-animal, such as its fear of or indifference to humans.	Large areas further north are quite sparsely populated and some is nearly uninhabited wilderness.	The large area to the north is sparsely populated and in some areas almost devoid of human population.
Hindi: किसी बाइनरी संख्या में दो में से एक ही मान हो सकता है, यानी 0 या 1, और इन संख्याओं को ही बाइनरी अंक - या कंप्यूटर की शब्दावली में बिट कहा जाता है. = English: A binary number can have only one of two values, i.e. 0 or 1, and these numbers are referred to as binary digits - or bits, to use computer jargon.	There are also a few buses going north to Hebron, the traditional burial place of the Biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and their wives.	There are also buses going north to Hebron, where the traditional burial sites of the Biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and their wives are located.
Hindi: यह आम बात हो गई, लेकिन लोहे वाहनों के लकड़ी के पहियों पर अधिक घिसन करते थे। = English: This became common practice, but the iron caused more wear on the wooden wheels of the wagons.	The show originally featured amateur voice actors, local to East Texas.	The show originally featured local amateur voice actors from eastern Texas.
Hindi: पौधे फ़ोटोसिंथेसिस द्वारा सूर्य से अपना भोजन बनाते हैं. वह छाया भी देते हैं. = English: Plants make their food from the sun by photosynthesis. They also provide shade.	When completely brought up by non-human animals, the feral child exhibits behaviors (within physical limits) almost entirely like those of the particular care-animal, such as its fear of or indifference to humans.	Wild animals, after being transported in a completely non-human way, behave (within physical limits) almost the same as animals under special care, such as fear or disregard for humans.
Hindi: यह मुझे समझ में नहीं आया; यह निश्चित रूप से उचित नहीं था। = English: That didn't seem to make sense to me; it certainly wasn't fair.	Boating is a national pastime in Finland, with a boat to every seven or eight people.	Canoeing is a national pastime in Finland, with one boat for every seven or eight people.
Hindi: जिस समय घटनाएँ हुई उसके युग को सामान्य रूप से यूरोप के इतिहास में 11वीं, 12वीं और 13वीं सदी (AD 1000-1300) में यूरोपियन इतिहास के उच्च मध्य युग की अवधि के रूप में बताया जाता है. = English: The age where the events took place is commonly referred as the High Middle Ages the period of European history in the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries (AD 1000–1300).	Also, make sure to pronounce r and rr differently: caro means dear, whereas carro means chariot.	Also, r and rr are pronounced differently: caro means dear, while carro means cart.
Hindi: 1994 में, इस संघर्ष की वजह से पूर्वी माल्डोवा में ट्रांसनिस्ट्रिया गणराज्य के निर्माण घोषणा हुई, जिसकी अपनी सरकार और मुद्रा है लेकिन इसे संयुक्त राष्ट्र के किसी भी सदस्य देश ने मान्यता नहीं दी. = English: In 1994, this conflict led to the creation of the self-proclaimed Transnistria Republic in eastern Moldova, which has its own government and currency but is not recognised by any UN member country.	Caretaker Prime Minister Julia Gillard claimed during the campaign of the 2010 federal election that she believed Australia should become a republic at the end of Queen Elizabeth II's reign.	Interim Prime Minister Julia Gillard claimed during the 2010 federal election campaign that she believed Australia should become a republic when Queen Elizabeth II's reign ends.
Hindi: इंटरनेट पर यह खोज 'शत्रुतापूर्ण पर्यावरण पाठ्यक्रम' के लिए अक्सर आपको एक स्थानीय कंपनी का पता प्रदान करेगी। = English: A search of the Internet for 'Hostile environment course' will probably provide the address of a local company.	Cochamó Valley - Chile's premier climbing destination, known as the Yosemite of South America, with a variety of granite big walls and crags.	A climbing spot in Chile, known as the Yosemite of South America, where there are many kinds of walls and rock faces.
Hindi: हालाँकि, लगभग रातों-रात इन योजनाओं को तब बनाया गया था जब सोवियत की यूनियन रेड आर्मी के 800,000 से ज़्यादा सैनिकों ने पोलैंड के पूर्वी क्षेत्रों पर हमला करने के बाद प्रवेश करते हुए बेलारूसी और यूक्रेनी मोर्चे खड़े कर दिए थे. उन्होंने यह रिगा शांति संधि, द सोवियत-पॉलिश नॉन-एग्रेशन पैक्ट और अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय द्विपक्षीय और बहुपक्षीय दोनों तरह की संधियों का उल्लंघन करते हुए किया था. = English: However, these plans were rendered obsolete nearly overnight, when over 800,000 soldiers from the Soviet's Union Red Army entered and created the Belarussian and Ukrainian fronts after invading the eastern regions of Poland in violation of the Riga Peace Treaty, the Soviet-Polish Non-Aggression Pact, and other international treaties, both bilateral and multilateral.	Many German baked goods also feature almonds, hazelnuts, and other tree nuts. Popular cakes often pair particularly well with a cup of strong coffee.	Many German baked goods contain nuts, such as almonds and hazelnuts, and other nuts. Popular cakes often go well with strong coffee.
Hindi: इसके उदाहरणों में नियंत्रण, नियोजन और समय निर्धारण, ग्राहक के निदान और सवालों के जवाब देने के साथ ही हाथ से लिखे होने की पहचान करना, बोली और चेहरा शामिल है. = English: Examples include control, planning and scheduling, the ability to answer customer diagnoses and questions, as well as handwriting recognition, voice and face.	Bush spokesman Gordon Johndroe called North Korea's pledge "a major step towards the goal of achieving the verifiable denuclearization of the Korean peninsula."	Bush spokesman Gordon Johndroe called North Korea's pledge "a significant step toward verifiable denuclearization of the Korean peninsula."
Hindi: बाली में इस एजेंडे के अन्य विषयों में दुनिया के बचे हुए जंगलों को बचाने, और ऐसी तकनीकों का आदान प्रदान करना का विषय शामिल है जिससे कि विकासशील देशों को कम प्रदूषणकारी तरीकों से आगे बढ़ने में मदद मिले। = English: Other subjects on the agenda in Bali include saving the world's remaining forests, and sharing technologies to help developing nations grow in less-polluting ways.	This behavior oftentimes results in rifts between the leaders and the rest of the team.	This behavior sometimes creates rifts between leaders and the rest of the team.
Hindi: इन दोनों टावर की ऊँचाई 83 मीटर है. इनकी लंबाई 378 मीटर है और इनमें 3.50 मीटर चौड़ी दो लेन हैं. = English: The two towers rise to a height of 83 meters, it's 378 meters long and it has two lanes of 3.50 m wide.	Summits include breath-taking views from peaks. Climbers from all parts of the world are continually establishing new routes amongst its endless potential of walls.	The peaks of the towers offer breath-taking views. The endless possibilities of the walls are constantly being explored by climbers from all over the world.
Hindi: खराब मौसम और कठोर इलाकेे में दुर्घटना स्थल की तलाश के प्रयास किए जा रहे हैं। = English: Efforts to search for the crash site are being met by bad weather and harsh terrain.	But there are a lot of things about birds that still look like a dinosaur.	But there are still many things about those birds that look like dinosaurs.
Hindi: इटली के कई अन्य शहरों और दुनिया के बाकी हिस्सों में, खासकर पोलैंड में, इस तरह के सेटअप बनाए गए थे, जिन्हें बड़ी संख्या में लोगों ने देखा था। = English: In many other cities of Italy and in the rest of the world, particularly in Poland, similar setups were made, which were viewed by a great number of people.	The crust is about 70 km thick on the near side and 100 km thick on the far side.	The thickness of the crust at the nearest end is about 70 km and at the farthest end it is about 100 km.
Hindi: टूर्नामेंटों की खबरों के लिए और पोलो मैचों के लिए टिकट खरीदने के लिए, एसोसिएशन अर्जेंटीना दे पोलो को देखें। = English: For news on tournaments and where to buy tickets for polo matches, check Asociacion Argentina de Polo.	Had the Allies failed, Germany probably would have been able to conquer Britain as it had the rest of Europe.	If the Allies had failed, Germany might have defeated Britain because it had the rest of Europe.
Hindi: अंत में, कई ऐसी छोटी बिल्लियाँ (लूज़ पेट कैट्स सहित) हैं जो कीट, रोडंट्स, छिपकलियों और पक्षियों जैसे कई छोटे जीवों को खाती हैं. = English: Finally, there are many small cats (including loose pet cats) that eat the far more numerous small prey like insects, rodents, lizards, and birds.	Also between each dynasty was an unstable age of divided provinces. The best-known of these periods was the Three Kingdoms epoch taking place for 60 years between the Han and the Jin Dynasty.	In addition, this was a period of instability in every dynasty, with the division of states being a major cause of instability. The 60-year-long conflict between the Han and Jin dynasties over the division of three states is well known.
Hindi: रोम में अलग-अलग जगहों पर कई बड़े टेलीविज़न स्क्रीन लगाए गए ताकि लोग समारोह देख सकें. = English: Several large television screens were installed in various places in Rome to let the people watch the ceremony.	Fluke wrote that the efforts by some to drown out women from speaking out about women’s health were unsuccessful.	Fluke wrote that some people tried to call women to women’s health, but failed.
Hindi: आम तौर पर सैटेलाइट फोन को मोबाइल फोन के स्थान पर उपयोग नहीं किया जा सकता है, क्योंकि सैटेलाइट फोन से कॉल करने के लिए आपको उपग्रह की रेखा पर घर के बाहर रहना पड़ेगा। = English: A satellite phone is not generally a replacement for a mobile phone, as you have to be outdoors with clear line of sight to the satellite to make a phone call.	Hershey and Chase used phages, or viruses, to implant their own DNA into a bacterium.	Hershey and Chase used a virus or phage to insert their DNA into a bacterium.
Hindi: इसी तरह से, शेंगेन का वीज़ा होने पर, आपको शेंगेन सदस्य देशों के लिए अलग-अलग वीज़ा का आवदेन नहीं देना पड़ता है, जिससे समय, पैसे और कागज़ी कार्रवाई की बचत होती है. = English: Similarly, by having a Schengen visa, you do not need to apply for visas to each of the Schengen member countries separately, hence saving time, money and paperwork.	Bishkek was described as sinking into a state of "anarchy" by one observer, as gangs of people roamed the streets and plundered stores of consumer goods.	An analyst says Bishkek is heading for anarchy as crowds of people are looting shops on the streets.
Hindi: एक रिपोर्ट मे बताया गया है कि इस क्षेत्र 9400 घर पानी की कमी से जूझ रहे है और लगभग 100 बिजली की कमी से । = English: It is reported that some 9400 homes in the region are without water and approximately 100 without electricity.	However, this does not come cheap: as rough rules of thumb, you can expect to pay up to four times the normal economy fare for business, and eleven times for first class!	However, it is not cheap: you can expect to pay four times the normal business economy rate and eleven times the first class rate for business travel!
Hindi: रणनीति महत्वपूर्ण सैन्य और असैन्य आपूर्ति को काटते हुए प्रभावी साबित हुई, हालाँकि इस नाकाबंदी ने पिछले दो शताब्दियों के कई अंतरराष्ट्रीय समझौतों द्वारा आमतौर पर स्वीकृत अंतर्राष्ट्रीय कानून का उल्लंघन किया। = English: The strategy proved effective, cutting off vital military and civilian supplies, although this blockade violated generally accepted international law codified by several international agreements of the past two centuries.	It was the final match for the All Blacks, who had already won the trophy two weeks ago.	This was the final match of the recently crowned 'All Blues' team.
Hindi: 1989 में उसने ब्रुक्स और ग्रोएनिंग के साथ द सिम्पसन को रचने में मदद की और वह शो की पहली राइटिंग टीम को नियुक्त करने के लिए उत्तरदायी था. = English: In 1989 he helped create The Simpsons with Brooks and Groening, and was responsible for hiring the show's first writing team.	A study published on Thursday in the journal Science reported on formation of a new bird species on the Ecuadorean Galápagos Islands.	A study published in the journal Science on Thursday reported the creation of a new bird species on the Ecuadorean Galapagos Island.
Hindi: वैज्ञानिक यह निष्कर्ष निकालने में सक्षम थे कि काला पदार्थ अन्य काले पदार्थ को उसी तरह प्रभावित करता है जिस तरह से आम पदार्थ करता है। = English: The scientists were able to conclude that the dark matter affect other dark matter in the same way regular matter does.	Another difference was that while the poor people and the woman ate their food while sitting in chairs, the rich men liked to have banquets together where they would lounge on their sides while they ate their meals.	One more difference was that where poor people and women sat on chairs to eat, the rich people preferred to have feasts together and while eating they enjoyed themselves.
Hindi: 1000 पाउंड से ज़्यादा वज़नी और करीब 17,500 मील प्रति घंटा की रफ़्तार से उड़ रहे दोनों सैटेलाइट धरती से 491 मील की ऊँचाई पर टकरा गए. = English: The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	For news on tournaments and where to buy tickets for polo matches, check Asociacion Argentina de Polo.	For news on tournaments and tickets for polo matches, see the Argentine Polo Association.
Hindi: ज़्यादातर जिलों में छोटी जापानी कोस्टर बसें चलती हैं जो आरामदायक और मज़बूत होती हैं. = English: Most districts are served by small Japanese Coaster Buses, which are comfortable and sturdy.	The result of plotting analysis will be posted to a public website.	The results of the Plotting Analysis must be posted on the public website.
Hindi: जैसा कि परीक्षण की निगरानी की गई थी और इसकी प्रभावशीलता का मूल्यांकन किया गया था, उसी तरह पूरक कीट नियंत्रण परीक्षण में निशानेबाज़ों की रेंजरों द्वारा बारीकी से निगरानी की जानी थी. = English: Shooters in the supplementary pest control trial were to be closely supervised by rangers, as the trial was monitored and its effectiveness evaluated.	The only way to get it through faster was to send it as checked luggage. Airline regulations will not allow them to send luggage without a passenger, which is where you come in.	The only way to get it quickly would be to send it as checked luggage. The airline rules would not allow them to send it without a passenger, and you would come in handy here.
Hindi: यह आज भी बनाया जाता है, लेकिन इससे भी महत्वपूर्ण बात यह है कि इसका अभिमुखता अनुपात डिजिटल कैमरा इमेज सेंसर प्रारूपों द्वारा विरासत में मिला है. = English: It is still produced today, but more importantly its aspect ratio has been inherited by digital camera image sensor formats.	One can only wonder what the keyboard will become when something newer comes along.	No one can imagine what a keyboard will look like when something new comes along.
Hindi: चीर धाराएँ समुद्र तट पर लगकर लौटने वाली लहरों का प्रवाह होता है, अक्सर एक चट्टान या इसी तरह के पदार्थों पर। = English: Rip currents are the returning flow from waves breaking off the beach, often at a reef or similar.	This gives them a wider range of small places to hide from predators.	This gives them a large number of small places to hide from predators.
Hindi: इसके साथ ही जर्मन नौसेना मुख्य रूप से यू-बोट का इस्तेमाल करते हुए इस ट्रैफिक को रोकने की कोशिश कर रही थी। = English: At the same time, the German navy, using mainly U-boats, was trying to stop this traffic.	Why do transportation systems engender such complaints, why do they fail on a daily basis? Are transportation engineers just incompetent? Or is something more fundamental going on?	Why do transport systems encourage such complaints? Why do they lag behind every day? Are transport engineers not competent? Or is there some other major flaw in the system?
Hindi: इस सीज़न में बीमारी के शुरुआती मामले जुलाई के आखिर में सामने आए थे. = English: The first cases of the disease this season were reported in late July.	Ocelots like to eat small animals. They will catch monkeys, snakes, rodents and birds if they can. Almost all of the animals that the ocelot hunts are far smaller than it is.	Ocelots prefer to eat small animals. If they can catch them, they will catch monkeys, snakes, lizards and birds. Almost all animals that are preyed upon by ocelots are much smaller than them.
Hindi: जापान के अर्थव्यवस्था, व्यापार और उद्योग मंत्रालय (METI) ने कहा कि उसे उपकरणों से संबंधित 27 दुर्घटनाओं की जानकारी थी. = English: Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) said that it had been aware of 27 accidents related to the devices.	Along the same line, men are required to wear trousers covering the knees.	Similarly, men are required to wear trousers that cover their knees.
Hindi: आईपॉड ओवरहीटिंग में खराबी के लगभग 60 मामले सामने आए हैं, जिससे कुल छह बार आग लगी और चार लोग मामूली रूप से जल गए। = English: Around 60 cases of malfunctioning iPods overheating have been reported, causing a total of six fires and leaving four people with minor burns.	This will allow it to be backwards compatible with 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g, provided that the base station has dual radios.	This will allow it to be backward compatible with 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g, provided that the base station has dual radios.
Hindi: वे गुण जो किसी उप-संस्कृति को अलग बनाते हैं, जैसे कि भाषा, सौंदर्य, धर्म, राजनीति, यौन, भूगोल या कई सारे कारकों का मिश्रण हो सकते हैं. = English: The qualities that determine a subculture as distinct may be linguistic, aesthetic, religious, political, sexual, geographical, or a combination of factors.	For example, the most common still image photography format in the world is 35mm, which was the dominant film size at the close of the analog film era.	For example, the most widely used format for photography is 35mm. It was the most popular format in the analog film era.
Hindi: 2015 के आखिर में, TogiNet ने एक सहयोगी स्टेशन के रूप में AstroNet रेडियो की स्थापना की. = English: In late 2015, TogiNet established AstroNet Radio as a subsidiary station.	Shooters in the supplementary pest control trial were to be closely supervised by rangers, as the trial was monitored and its effectiveness evaluated.	As the trial was monitored and its effectiveness evaluated, so too were the supplementary insect control trials closely monitored by the scouts of the rangers.
Hindi: पूरी तरह से गैर-मानवीय जानवरों पर ढोकर लाए जाने के बाद, जंगली बच्चा करीब-करीब वैसा ही बर्ताव (शारीरिक सीमाओं के भीतर) करते हैं जैसा खास-देखभाल वाले जानवर करते हैं, जैसे कि इंसानों से डर या बेपरवाही. = English: When completely brought up by non-human animals, the feral child exhibits behaviors (within physical limits) almost entirely like those of the particular care-animal, such as its fear of or indifference to humans.	However, that is not true. Although there is something written on the back of the document, it is not a treasure map.	Although this is not true. Although there is some writing on the back of the document, it is not a treasure map.
Hindi: यह पार्क 19,500 वर्ग किलोमीटर में फैला है और इसमें 14 अलग-अलग इको ज़ोन हैं, जिनमें से हर एक में अलग-अलग वन्यजीवन है. = English: The park covers 19,500 km² and is divided in 14 different ecozones, each supporting different wildlife.	European influence and colonialism began in the 15th century, as Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama found the Cape Route from Europe to India.	The 15th century saw the beginning of European influence and colonialism, as Vasco da Gama discovered the sea route from Europe to India.
Hindi: अंतिम स्कोर एक अंक की जीत थी, 21 और 20, ऑल ब्लैक्स का 15 गेम लगातार जीतने का सिलसिला समाप्त हुआ । = English: The final score was a one-point victory, 21 to 20, ending the All Blacks' 15 game winning streak.	Most of the distinct Baltic Cruises feature an extended stay in St. Petersburg, Russia.	Most of the specialised cruise ships have extended their stay in St Petersburg, Russia.
Hindi: पूरी तरह से जागे बिना आपको चेतना में लाने के लिए अपेक्षाकृत शांत अलार्म घड़ी का उपयोग करके इसे आसानी से किया जा सकता है। = English: This can be easily done by using a relatively quiet alarm clock to bring you to consciousness without fully waking you.	The Plitvice Lakes national park is heavily forested, mainly with beech, spruce, and fir trees, and features a mixture of Alpine and Mediterranean vegetation.	The Plitvice National Park is surrounded by dense forest, where mainly beech, spruce and fir trees are grown, and here alpine and Mediterranean vegetation is found.
Hindi: महाराजा और महारानी के ख़िलाफ़ चीखते-चिल्लाते लोगों की भीड़ से घिरी एक गाड़ी में सफर करते हुए वे लोग पेरिस वापस आए. = English: In a carriage, they traveled back to Paris surrounded by a mob of people screaming and shouting threats against the King and Queen.	For a comparison of population that surprises many: There are more African Americans living in the US than there are Canadian citizens.	To many, the comparison of population was surprising. There are more African Americans in the United States than Canadians.
Hindi: हालाँकि, जंगल का अर्थ केवल मैंग्रोव दलदल नहीं हैं - वे कुछ अंतिम शक्तिशाली जंगलों में से हैं, जो कभी गंगा पठार को कवर करते थे। = English: The forests aren't just mangrove swamps though — they include some of the last remaining stands of the mighty jungles which once covered the Gangetic plain.	Atoms are so incredibly tiny that trillions of them could fit into the period at the end of this sentence.	Atoms are so small that they can fit into the dot at the end of a sentence.
Hindi: हमारा पालक देखभाल प्रणाली प्रदान करता है सुरक्षित घर, प्यार से भरा देखभाल, स्थिर शिक्षा और विश्वसनीय स्वास्थ्य देखभाल। = English: Our foster care system is supposed to provide safe homes, loving caregivers, stable education, and reliable health care.	Both cyanuric acid and melamine were found in urine samples from pets that died after consuming contaminated pet food.	Both senecionine and melamine were found in the urine samples of pets that died after eating contaminated pet food.
Hindi: हालाँकि यह अकेला नहीं है, प्रयोग करना, और प्रयोग एक ऐसा परीक्षण होता है जिसका इस्तेमाल करके एक या इससे ज़्यादा संभावित परिकल्पनाओं को ख़त्म करने, सवाल करने, और अवलोकन करने से भी वैज्ञानिक शोध को मार्गदर्शन मिलता है. = English: It isn’t alone though, experimentation, and an experiment is a test that is used to eliminate one or more of the possible hypotheses, asking questions, and making observations also guide scientific research.	The Portuguese destroyed it and rebuilt it under the name Casa Branca, only to abandon it after an earthquake in 1755.	The Portuguese destroyed it and rebuilt it as Casa Branca, then after the earthquake it was left in 1755.
Hindi: यह तर्कसंगत लग रहा है, क्योंकि ऐसा महसूस नहीं होता है कि पृथ्वी चल रही है, है कि नहीं? = English: This seems sensible, because the Earth doesn't feel as if it's moving, does it?	Previously, Ring's CEO, Jamie Siminoff, remarked the company started when his doorbell wasn't audible from his shop in his garage.	Before that, Ring's CEO, Jamie Siminoff, told me that the company started when his doorbell didn't ring in his garage, which was attached to his shop.
Hindi: 1895 में, प्रथम चीन-जापान युद्ध (1894-1895) में हार के बाद, चिंग सरकार शिमोनोसेकी की संधि पर हस्ताक्षर करती है, जिसके द्वारा वह ताइवान की संप्रभुता जापान को सौंप देती है, जो 1945 तक द्वीप पर राज करता है। = English: In 1895, after defeat in the First Sino-Japanese War (1894-1895), the Qing government signs the Treaty of Shimonoseki, by which it cedes sovereignty over Taiwan to Japan, which rules the island until 1945.	Anyone who's going to drive at high latitudes or over mountain passes should consider the possibility of snow, ice, or freezing temperatures.	Anyone driving a vehicle on a high or mountain pass should be aware of the possibility of snow, ice or cold temperatures.
Hindi: जल्द ही, दंगा संबंधी उपकरणों से लैस अधिकारियों ने अहाते में प्रवेश किया और कैदियों को आंसू गैस की मदद से काबू में कर लिया। = English: Soon, officers equipped with riot gear entered the yard and cornered the inmates with tear gas.	Check the label for specific first aid instructions for that specific poison.	See the label for special first aid instructions for that particular poison.
Hindi: उसी महीने एक अन्य विमान मशहद के एक रनवे से आगे निकल गया और एक दीवार से टकरा गया, जिसमें सत्रह की मौत हो गई। = English: The same month saw another airliner overrun a runway at Mashhad and strike a wall, killing seventeen.	There are many French wines to be had, but the New Zealand and Australian wines might travel better.	There are many kinds of French wines, but perhaps New Zealand and Australian wines are better.
Hindi: असल में फील्ड ट्रिप साझा करना यात्रा पर विचार करने और भविष्य की कक्षाओं के साथ अनुभव करने का एक शानदार तरीका है. = English: Sharing a field trip virtually is also a great way to reflect a on a trip and share experiences with future classes.	City-states are the precursors of nations. A civilizational culture implies the passing on of knowledge across several generations, a lingering cultural footprint and fair dissemination.	Cities-States are the leaders of nations. A civilizational culture means passing knowledge from one generation to the next, a stable cultural footprint and fair distribution.
Hindi: बच्चों को कई वजहों से फ़ॉस्टर केयर में रखा जाता है, जिनमें अनदेखी करना, बुरा बर्ताव करना, और यहां तक कि ज़बरदस्ती वसूली करना भी शामिल है. = English: Children are placed in Foster Care for a wide variety of reasons that range from neglect, to abuse, and even to extortion.	Pests can spoil food, cause irritation, or in a worse case cause allergic reactions, spread venom, or transmit infections.	Insects can spoil food, cause irritation, or even worse, allergies, poisoning, or infection.
Hindi: उनके अंतर्गत अधिक मध्यम आकार की बिल्लियाँ होती हैं जो खरगोशों से लेकर मृगों और हिरणों तक के मध्यम आकार के शिकार खाती हैं. = English: Under them are more medium sized cats that eat medium sized prey ranging from rabbits to antelopes and deer.	Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	Ho has encouraged developing countries to “stop polluting in the old ways and then clean up later.”
Hindi: उनका ऊष्मीय व्यवहार पृथ्वी की बड़ी गुफाओं जैसा स्थिर नहीं है जो अक्सर काफी स्थिर तापमान बनाए रखती हैं, लेकिन यह जमीन के इन गहरे छेद के अनुरूप है,” यूनाइटेड स्टेट्स जियोलॉजिकल सर्वे (यूएसजीएस) की भूगर्भीय टीम और फ्लैगस्टाफ, एरिजोना में स्थित उत्तरी एरिजोना विश्वविद्यालय के ग्लेन कुशिंग ने कहा। = English: Their thermal behavior is not as steady as large caves on Earth that often maintain a fairly constant temperature, but it is consistent with these being deep holes in the ground," said Glen Cushing of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Astrogeology Team and of Northern Arizona University located in Flagstaff, Arizona.	Anyone planning a visit to a country that could be considered a war zone should get professional training.	Any traveler planning to visit a war zone declared country should be professionally trained.
Hindi: पैरी ने कहा था कि वे “यह आकलन करने टैक्सास लौटेंगे कि आज के कॉकस के क्या परिणाम हैं, ताकि वे यह निर्धारित कर सकें कि इस दौड़ में उनके खुद के लिए आगे क्या राह है”, लेकिन बाद में उन्होंने कहा कि वे दौड़ में बने रहेंगे और 21 जनवरी को मुख्य रूप से साउथ कैरोलिना में मुकाबला करेंगे. = English: Perry stated that he would "return to Texas to assess the results of tonight's caucus, determine whether there is a path forward for myself in this race", but later said that he would remain in the race and compete in the January 21 South Carolina primary.	It is still produced today, but more importantly its aspect ratio has been inherited by digital camera image sensor formats.	It is still made today, but more importantly, it has inherited the aspect ratio from the digital camera image sensor formats.
Hindi: आईपॉड ओवरहीटिंग में खराबी के लगभग 60 मामले सामने आए हैं, जिससे कुल छह बार आग लगी और चार लोग मामूली रूप से जल गए। = English: Around 60 cases of malfunctioning iPods overheating have been reported, causing a total of six fires and leaving four people with minor burns.	Two songs from the movie, Audition (The Fools Who Dream) and City of Stars, received nominations for best original song. Lionsgate studio received 26 nominations — more than any other studio.	Audition (The Flowers That Dream) and City of Stars have been nominated for Best Original Song. More than any other studio, Lionsgate has been nominated for 26 awards.
Hindi: अंत में, कई ऐसी छोटी बिल्लियाँ (लूज़ पेट कैट्स सहित) हैं जो कीट, रोडंट्स, छिपकलियों और पक्षियों जैसे कई छोटे जीवों को खाती हैं. = English: Finally, there are many small cats (including loose pet cats) that eat the far more numerous small prey like insects, rodents, lizards, and birds.	Later reports then stated the plane received a bomb threat and was diverted back to Afghanistan, landing in Kandahar.	Then later reports said that the plane was informed of a bomb threat and diverted to Kandahar in Afghanistan.
Hindi: डाउनहिल स्कीइंग एक खेल के रूप में कम से कम 17 वीं शताब्दी में शुरु हुई थी और 1861 में ऑस्ट्रेलिया में नॉर्वे के लोगों द्वारा पहला मनोरंजक स्की क्लब खोला गया था। = English: Downhill skiing as a sport goes back to at least the 17th century, and in 1861 the first recreational ski club was opened by Norwegians in Australia.	He was also engaged in engraving banknotes for many countries, recent examples of his work including the Prime Ministerial portraits on the front of the new Canadian $5 and $100 bills.	They have also been involved in the engraving of bank notes in many countries, including the recent new Canadian $5 and $100 bills, which feature the Prime Minister's portrait on the front.
Hindi: हालांकि, जो लोग थोड़ी स्पेनिश जानते हैं वे इससे सहमत हैं कि पुर्तगाली, स्पेनिश के इतने समान है की इसे अलग से अध्ययन करने की आवश्यकता नहीं है। = English: However, people who know a little Spanish may hastily conclude that Portuguese is close enough that it need not be studied separately.	The medical charity Mangola, Medecines Sans Frontieres and the World Health Organisation say it is the worst outbreak recorded in the country.	Medical charity Mangola, Medicine Sense Frontier and the World Health Organization say this is the worst outbreak in the country.
Hindi: अन्य बायोरैड-आधारित विकल्पों में सोने से पहले बहुत सारे तरल पदार्थ पीना (विशेष रूप से पानी या चाय, एक प्रचलित मूत्रवर्धक) शामिल है, जिससे व्यक्ति को मूत्र करने के लिए मजबूर होना पड़ता है”. = English: Other biorhythm-based options involve drinking lots of fluid (particularly water or tea, a known diuretic) prior to sleep, forcing one to get up to urinate.	Rip currents are the returning flow from waves breaking off the beach, often at a reef or similar.	Rip currents are the flow of waves returning to the shore, often along a rock or similar substance.
Hindi: हर कोई ज्ञान प्राप्त कर सकता है। इस लक्ष्य के रास्ते में केवल एक चीज़ है वह है हमारा अपने तनाव और नकारात्मकता। = English: Everyone can achieve enlightenment. The only thing standing in the way of this goal is our own tension and negativity.	Just like the moon exerts a pull on the earth, causing tides, so does the Milky Way exert a force on the Sagittarius galaxy.	Just as the moon causes tides on earth by exerting a pull, so does the Milky Way exert a pull on the Sagittarius galaxy.
Hindi: अगर मित्र राष्ट्र विफल हो जाते, तो जर्मनी शायद ब्रिटेन को पराजित कर देता क्योंकि उसके पास शेष यूरोप था. = English: Had the Allies failed, Germany probably would have been able to conquer Britain as it had the rest of Europe.	The bill requires violent video games sold in the state of California to be labeled with a decal reading "18" and makes their sale to a minor punishable by a fine of $1000 per offense.	Bill requires violent video games sold in California to be labeled “18” and makes it a crime to sell them to minors for up to $1,000 per offense.
Hindi: लड़ाई के आख़िरी दो सालों में, पहले के साथी अब दुश्मन बन गए थे और शीत युद्ध की शुरुआत हो चुकी थी. = English: With two years of the end of the war, the former allies were now enemies and the Cold War began.	Women: It is recommended that any women travellers say that they are married, regardless of actual marital status.	Women: It is recommended that any woman passenger, regardless of her actual marital status, claims to be married.
Hindi: 1960 के दशक के दौरान, ब्रेझिन्स्की ने जॉन एफ कैनेडी के सलाहकार के तौर पर और उसके बाद लिंडन बी जॉनसन के प्रशासन के लिए काम किया. = English: Throughout 1960s, Brzezinski worked for John F. Kennedy as his advisor and then the Lyndon B. Johnson administration.	Before The Simpsons Simon had worked on several shows in various positions.	Before The Simpsons, Simon had worked in many shows in many positions.
Hindi: अस्पताल ने संक्रमण नियंत्रण के लिए नियमों का पालन किया है, इन नियमों में दूसरों के संभावित संक्रमण को रोकने के लिए रोगी को दूसरों से अलग करना शामिल है। = English: The hospital has followed protocol for infection control, including separating the patient from others to prevent possible infection of others.	Subsistence agriculture is a simple, often organic, system using saved seed native to the ecoregion combined with crop rotation or other relatively simple techniques to maximize yield.	A livelihood-based farming system is an easy, often organic, system that uses local, saved seeds to maximize yields through crop rotation or other relatively easy techniques.
Hindi: चूँकि मोंटेवीडियो भूमध्य रेखा के दक्षिण में है, इसलिए उत्तरी गोलार्ध में सर्दियों के दौरान वहाँ गर्मी होती है और इसके विपरीत भी होता है। = English: Since Montevideo is south of the Equator, it is summer there when it's winter in the Northern Hemisphere and vice versa.	One of the most noteworthy recent examples of this was the North Atlantic campaign of WWII. The Americans were trying to move men and materials across the Atlantic Ocean to help Britain.	Its most notable recent example was the North Atlantic campaign of World War II. The United States was attempting to assist Britain by moving troops and supplies across the Atlantic Ocean.
Hindi: सामुदायिक गुस्से के कारण उस साइट के लिए यौन विषय के बारे में एक नीति का मसौदा तैयार करने के लिए मौजूदा प्रयासों का नेतृत्व किया गया, जो लाखों खुले तौर पर लाइसेंस प्राप्त मीडिया को होस्ट करता है. = English: The community irritation led to current efforts to draft a policy regarding sexual content for the site which hosts millions of openly-licensed media.	Workers must often get their superiors' approval for any decisions they make, and are expected to obey their superiors' instructions without question.	Workers are often expected to get approval from their senior officers before making any decision, and are expected to follow their senior's instructions without question.
Hindi: निर्वाह कृषि केवल कृषक तथा उसके परिवार की आवश्यकताओं को पूरा करने और पर्याप्त भोजन उत्पादन के लिए की जाती है। = English: Subsistence agriculture is agriculture carried out for the production of enough food to meet just the needs of the agriculturalist and his/her family.	ASUS Eee PC, earlier launched world-wide for cost-saving and functionality factors, became a hot topic in 2007 Taipei IT Month.	In order to save and make life easier, ASUS Eee PC was launched worldwide in 2007, and it was a hot topic in the Taipei IT Month.
Hindi: सैद्धांतिक रूप से तिब्बती बौद्ध धर्म बहुत सरल है। इसमें कुंडलिनी योग, ध्यान और सभी को प्रेम से गले लगाने वाला मार्ग शामिल है। = English: In principle the Tibetan Buddhism is very simple. It consists of Kundalini Yoga, meditation and the path of all-embracing love.	A civilization is a singular culture shared by a significant large group of people who live and work co-operatively, a society.	Such a culture is called civilization. It is shared by a large group of people. Here people live together in society and work together.
Hindi: शेरों का समूह काफी हद तक भेड़ियों या कुत्तों के झुंड की तरह काम करता है, जो जानवर व्यवहार में आश्चर्यजनक रूप से शेरों (लेकिन अन्य बड़ी बिल्लियों) के समान होते हैं, और अपने शिकार के लिए बहुत घातक भी होते हैं। = English: Lion prides act much like packs of wolves or dogs, animals surprisingly similar to lions (but not other big cats) in behavior, and also very deadly to their prey.	Robin Uthappa made the innings highest score, 70 runs in just 41 balls by hitting 11 fours and 2 sixes.	Robin Uthappa scored only 41 balls with 11 fours and 2 sixes to 70 runs to make the highest score of the innings.
Hindi: 4 जुलाई को कांग्रेस द्वारा अपनाए जाने के बाद, एक हाथ से लिखे गए मसौदे पर कांग्रेस के अध्यक्ष जॉन हैनकॉक और सचिव चार्ल्स थ्रॉन द्वारा हस्ताक्षर किये गए थे, फिर इसे कुछ ब्लॉक दूर जॉन डनलप की प्रिंटिंग की दुकान पर भेजा गया था. = English: After its adoption by Congress on July 4, a handwritten draft signed by the President of Congress John Hancock and the Secretary Charles Thomson was then sent a few blocks away to the printing shop of John Dunlap.	In the archipelagos and lakes you do not necessarily need a yacht.	You don't need a yacht on islands and lakes.
Hindi: साथ ही ब्लॉगिंग “छात्रों को अपने आस-पास की दुनिया के बारे में ज़्यादा जानकारी रखने के लिए मजबूर करती है.” दर्शकों की दिलचस्पी को पूरा करने की ज़रूरत छात्रों को चपल और दिलचस्प बनने के प्रेरित करती है. (टोटो, 2004). = English: Also blogging "forces students to become more savvy about the world around them." The need to feed the interest of the audience inspires students to be clever and interesting (Toto, 2004).	As the areas are sparsely populated, and light pollution therefore often not a problem, you will also be able to enjoy the stars.	The area has a very low population and often a problem of light pollution, so you can enjoy the stars as well.
Hindi: लेकिन भूमध्य रेखा के कुछ ही डिग्री उत्तर में मौजूद “अत्यधिक उष्णकटिबंध” में होने की वजह से, आपको गर्मी (हमेशा) और तेज़ धूप (जब आसमान साफ़ हो, जो कि ज़्यादातर होता है) का सामना करना पड़ेगा. = English: But being placed in the "high tropics" just a few degrees north of equator you will need to deal with both heat (always) and strong sun (when the sky is clear, more rarely).	Television reports show white smoke coming from the plant.	Television reports showed white smoke coming out of the plant.
Hindi: अभी भी प्राधिकारियों से सलाह लें, सभी संकेतों का पालन करें और सुरक्षा चेतावनियों पर पूरा ध्यान दें. = English: Still, take advice from authorities, obey all signs, and pay close attention to safety warnings.	Historians have criticized past FBI policies for focusing resources on cases which are easy to solve, especially stolen car cases, with the intent of boosting the agency's success rate.	Historians have criticized the FBI's previous policies for focusing resources on cases that are easier to solve, particularly car thefts, in order to increase the agency's success rate.
Hindi: ऑडिशन (द फ़ूल्स हू ड्रीम) और सिटी ऑफ़ स्टार्स के दो गानो को सर्वश्रेष्ठ मूल गीत के लिए नामांकन मिला. किसी भी अन्य स्टूडियो से ज़्यादा — लायंसगेट स्टूडियो को 26 नामांकन मिले. = English: Two songs from the movie, Audition (The Fools Who Dream) and City of Stars, received nominations for best original song. Lionsgate studio received 26 nominations — more than any other studio.	The two towers rise to a height of 83 meters, it's 378 meters long and it has two lanes of 3.50 m wide.	The height of both towers is 83 meters. Their length is 378 meters and they have two 3.50 meter wide lanes.
Hindi: कुछ फ़ेस्टिवल में छोटे बच्चों के साथ आने वाले परिवारों के लिए कैंप लगाने के ख़ास इलाके होते हैं. = English: Some festivals have special camping areas for families with young children.	The vehicle itself was taken away from the scene of the accident at approximately 1200 GMT on the same day.	The vehicle was taken away from the accident site about 1200 GMT that day.
Hindi: साथ ही संयुक्त राष्ट्र संघ वैश्विक तापवृद्धि (ग्लोबल वार्मिंग) से प्रभावित देशों को इसके प्रभावों से निपटने में सहायता करने के लिए एक निधि को एकत्र करने की आशा करता है। = English: The U.N. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts.	Resting on the top of one of the mountains north of Mecca, the cave is completely isolated from the rest of the world.	The cave is cut off from the rest of the world by mountains to the north of Mecca.
Hindi: विज्ञान अब यह संकेत देता है कि इस विशाल कार्बन अर्थव्यवस्था ने जीवमंडल को उसकी स्थिर स्थितियों में से एक से हटा दिया है जिसने पिछले बीस लाख सालों में मानव विकास में सहायता की है. = English: Science now indicates that this massive carbon economy has dislodged the biosphere from one of its stable states that has supported human evolution for the past two million years.	Plants make their food from the sun by photosynthesis. They also provide shade.	Plants make their food by photosynthesis. They also provide shade.
Hindi: हॉट चॉकलेट बेल्जियम के मानकों पर बनी है. फलों का जूस महंगा है लेकिन बहुत अच्छा है. = English: The hot chocolate is up to Belgian standards. Fruit juices are pricey but excellent.	Fortunately, drivers tend to behave within a reasonably consistent range; thus, traffic streams tend to have some reasonable consistency and can be roughly represented mathematically.	Fortunately, the driver drives within a reasonable consistent range; thus, the traffic stream has some reasonable stability and can be roughly mathematically shown.
Hindi: इसके मुंह के तालु में एक अतिरिक्त सेट के साथ ही 70 से ज़्यादा रेजर की तरह नुकीले दाँतों से भरे इसके लंबे जबड़े थे, जिसका अर्थ है कि उसके रास्ते से गुज़रने वाली किसी भी चीज़ के लिए कोई बचाव नहीं था. = English: Its long jaws were studded with more than 70 razor-sharp teeth, along with an extra set in the roof of its mouth, meaning that there was no escape for anything that crossed its path.	İzmir is the third largest city in Turkey with a population of around 3.7 million, the second biggest port after Istanbul, and a very good transport hub.	Izmir is the third largest city in Turkey, with a population of approximately 3.7 million, after Istanbul, the second largest port, and a very good transportation center.
Hindi: 1980 के दशक के दौरान उन्होंने टैक्सी, चीयर्स, और द ट्रेसी उल्मैन शो जैसे शो में काम किया था. = English: During the 1980s he worked on shows such as Taxi, Cheers, and The Tracy Ullman Show.	Scientists say the explosion caused by the collision was massive.	Scientists say the collision caused a massive explosion.
Hindi: ज़्यादातर जिलों में छोटी जापानी कोस्टर बसें चलती हैं जो आरामदायक और मज़बूत होती हैं. = English: Most districts are served by small Japanese Coaster Buses, which are comfortable and sturdy.	The city is also the base to climb the Nyiragongo volcano along with some of the cheapest Mountain Gorilla tracking in Africa.	This city, with some of the cheapest mountain gorilla trekking in Africa, is also the base for climbing the Nyiragongo Volcano.
Hindi: घरेलू बकरियों को आम तौर पर झुंडों में रखा जाता था जो पहाड़ियों या अन्य चरने वाले क्षेत्रों में घूमती थीं, अक्सर वे बकरियों के झुंड की तरफ जाती थीं जहां अक्सर बच्चे या किशोर होते थे, अधिक व्यापक रूप से ज्ञात चरवाहे के समान। झुंडों के ये तरीके आज भी इस्तेमाल किए जाते हैं। = English: Domestic goats were generally kept in herds that wandered on hills or other grazing areas, often tended by goatherds who were frequently children or adolescents, similar to the more widely known shepherd. These methods of herding are still used today.	Today many Sámi work in modern trades. Tourism is an important income in Sápmi, the Sámi area.	Many Sámi people work in modern business, Sápmi, which is inhabited by Sámi people, is a very important source of income in tourism.
Hindi: यदि आप खुद को अपनी नींद में घड़ी को रीसेट करते हुए पाते हैं, तो इसे कमरे के दूसरी तरफ रखिये , जिससे आपको इसे बंद करने के लिए बिस्तर से मजबूरन उठना ही पड़ेगा । = English: If you find yourself resetting the clock in your sleep, it can be placed on the other side of the room, forcing you to get out of bed to turn it off.	It also arguably makes reading easier, though writing is somewhat complicated by the need to find out whether a verb or adjective is used in a substantivized form.	It certainly makes it easier to read, although it is much more difficult to write down what is needed to find out whether an action or adjective is used correctly.
Hindi: दूसरों को कथित तौर पर जानवरों से ढोकर लाया गया था; कुछ के बारे में कहा जाता है कि वे खुद ही जंगल में रह रहे थे. = English: Others are alleged to have been brought up by animals; some are said to have lived in the wild on their own.	Greenland was settled sparsely. In the Norse sagas they say that Erik the Red was exiled from Iceland for murder, and when travelling further west, found Greenland and named it Greenland.	Greenland was settled on a very small area. In the Saga of Erik the Red they say that Erik was exiled from Iceland for murder, and on his way westward he found Greenland, which he called Greenland.
Hindi: संयुक्त राज्य अमेरिका में प्रिंसटन विश्वविद्यालय और स्वीडन में उप्साला विश्वविद्यालय के शोधकर्ताओं ने बताया कि नई प्रजातियाँ सिर्फ दो पीढ़ियों में विकसित हुईं, हालाँकि एक स्थानिक डार्विन फिंच, जियोस्पाइज़ा फोर्टेस और अप्रवासी कैक्टस फिंच, जिओस्पिज़ा कोनिरोस्ट्रिस के बीच प्रजनन के कारण इस प्रक्रिया में काफी समय लगने की बात कही गई थी. = English: Researchers from Princeton University in the United States and Uppsala University in Sweden reported the new species evolved in just two generations, though this process had been believed to take much longer, due to breeding between an endemic Darwin finch, Geospiza fortes, and the immigrant cactus finch, Geospiza conirostris.	Most of the life of the Hebrew family happened in the open air.	Most of the Hebrew family lived outdoors.
Hindi: गोमा, रवांडा के पास बिल्कुल पूर्व में कांगो लोकतांत्रिक गणराज्य का एक पर्यटन शहर है. = English: Goma is a tourist city of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the extreme east near Rwanda.	Several million vials of encephalitis vaccine have also been promised by the government, which will help prepare health agencies for next year.	The government has promised millions of vials of the vaccine for encephalitis, which will help health agencies to prepare next year.
Hindi: उनकी टीम के साथी फ़र्नांडो अलोंसो अधिकांश दौड़ में आगे थे, लेकिन अपने अल्प-विराम के ठीक बाद इसे रोक दिया, शायद इसलिए क्योंकि सामने वाला पहिया बुरी तरह से सिकुड़ गया था. = English: His teammate Fernando Alonso was in the lead for most of the race, but ended it right after his pit-stop, probably because a badly tucked right front wheel.	Feel free to pencil in your own marks, but remember the printed bowing marks are there for a musical reason, so they should usually be respected.	Feel free to write your own marks, but remember that printed Boeing marks are also musical, so they should be respected as such.
Hindi: एक और अंतर यह था कि जहाँ गरीब लोग और महिला कुर्सियों पर बैठकर खाना खाते थे, वहीं अमीर लोग मिलजुल कर दावतें करना पसंद करते थे और भोजन करते वक्त वे मौज मस्ती करते थे. = English: Another difference was that while the poor people and the woman ate their food while sitting in chairs, the rich men liked to have banquets together where they would lounge on their sides while they ate their meals.	A moderate earthquake shook western Montana at 10:08 p.m. on Monday.	A minor earthquake shook western Montana at 10: 08 am on Monday.
Hindi: यह बहुत समय से ज्ञात है कि विभिन्न प्रकार के मस्तिष्क घाव, ट्रॉमा, चोट और ट्यूमर कुछ मानसिक व्यवहार को प्रभावित करते हैं और कुछ मानसिक कार्यों में परिवर्तन का कारण बनते हैं. = English: It has been known for a long time that different types of brain damage, traumas, lesions, and tumours affect behaviour and cause changes in some mental functions.	However, people who know a little Spanish may hastily conclude that Portuguese is close enough that it need not be studied separately.	However, those who know a little Spanish agree that Portuguese is so similar to Spanish that it does not need to be studied separately.
Hindi: हू ने विकासशील देशों को “ पुराने तरीकों से प्रदूषण फैलाने से रोकने और बाद में सफाई करने के लिए प्रोत्साहित किया।” = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	Fellow wrestlers also paid tribute to Luna.	Luna was also remembered by her fellow wrestlers.
Hindi: लोग देवताओं के लिए बलि लाते हैं और पुजारी आयोजनों और त्यौहारों में अपना समय देकर देवताओं की सेवा करते हैं. = English: People would bring sacrifices to the gods and the priests would try to attend to the needs of the gods through ceremonies and festivals.	Although pyramid-building in stone continued until the end of the Old Kingdom, the pyramids of Giza were never surpassed in their size and the technical excellence of their construction.	Although stone pyramids continued to be built into the end of the Old Empire, they never reached the size or technical excellence of the Great Pyramid of Giza.
Hindi: हज़ारों मील दूर किसी को कॉल करने के लिए, आप सैटेलाइट इस्तेमाल करते हैं. = English: When you call someone who is thousands of miles away, you are using a satellite.	Casablanca is one of the least interesting places to shop in all of Morocco.	Marrakesh is one of the least interesting places to shop in Morocco.
Hindi: विखंडन बम इस सिद्धांत पर काम करता है कि कई प्रोटॉन और न्यूट्रॉन वाले एक नाभिक को एक साथ रखने के लिए ऊर्जा लगती है। = English: The fission bomb works on the principle that it takes energy to put together a nucleus with many protons and neutrons.	The United States Strategic Command of the U.S. Department of Defense office is tracking the debris.	The United States Department of Defense is keeping a watch on the debris.
Hindi: परिवहन प्रणाली ऐसी शिकायतों को क्यों बढ़ावा देती है? वे हर दिन क्यों पिछड़ जाते हैं? क्या परिवहन इंजीनियर काबिल नहीं हैं? या इस प्रणाली में कोई और बड़ी गड़बड़ी है? = English: Why do transportation systems engender such complaints, why do they fail on a daily basis? Are transportation engineers just incompetent? Or is something more fundamental going on?	According to park authorities, stay at least 100 yards/meters away from bears and wolves and 25 yards/meters from all other wild animals!	Keep at least 100 yards away from bears and wolves and at least 25 yards away from other wild animals, according to park authorities.
Hindi: बॉक्स जैलीफ़िश, अक्टूबर से अप्रैल तक 1770 के उत्तर में मौजूद समुद्री तटों के पास और नदी के मुहानों पर नज़र आती हैं. इन महीनों में वे अक्सर बाहर भी मिल सकती हैं. = English: Box jellyfish occur near beaches and near river estuaries from October to April north of 1770. They can occasionally be found outside these times.	The secret to their success is the concept of the niche, a special job each cat holds that keeps it from competing with others.	Each cat has a special job that prevents it from competing with others.
Hindi: टॉमी ड्रीमर ने कहा “लूना पहली क्वीन ऑफ़ एक्सट्रीम थी. मेरी पहली मैनेजर. लूना की मृत्यु दो चाँद वाली मशहूर रात में हुई थी. वह रात उसकी तरह ही ख़ास थी. वह बेहद शक्तिशाली महिला थी.” = English: Tommy Dreamer said "Luna was the first Queen of Extreme. My first manager. Luna passed away on the night of two moons. Pretty unique just like her. Strong woman."	In 1624,Dutch East India Company establishes a base in southwestern Taiwan, initiating a transformation in aboriginal grain production practices and employing Chinese laborers to work on its rice and sugar plantations.	In 1624, the Dutch East India Company established a base in the south-western part of Taiwan, which was beginning to change the indigenous methods of grain production and was employing Chinese workers in its rice and sugar plantations.
Hindi: फारसी में ज्यादातर सरल और नियमित व्याकरण है। = English: Persian has a relatively easy and mostly regular grammar.	After the results came in, Gingrich lauded Santorum, but had tough words for Romney, on whose behalf negative campaign advertisements were aired in Iowa against Gingrich.	After the results came in, Gingrich praised Santorum, but condemned Romney, whose campaign had run negative ads against Gingrich in Iowa.
Hindi: उसे समुद्री डाकुओं ने लूटा था, तिब्बत में पागल कुत्ते ने हमला किया, नेपाल में शादी से भाग निकला और भारत में गिरफ्तार कर लिया गया। = English: He was robbed by pirates, attacked in Tibet by a rabid dog, escaped marriage in Nepal and was arrested in India.	Saint Petersburg cruises include time in town. Cruise passengers are exempted from visa requirements (check the terms).	St. Petersburg Yacht Club offers a stay in the city. Yacht Club passengers are exempted from visa requirements (check conditions).
Hindi: प्राचीन चीन में अलग-अलग समय अवधि दिखाने का एक अनूठा तरीका था; चीन का प्रत्येक चरण या प्रत्येक परिवार जो सत्ता में था, एक ख़ास राजवंश था. = English: Ancient China had a unique way of showing different time periods; each stage of China or each family that was in power was a distinctive dynasty.	Last month Iran saw its worst air disaster in years when an airliner heading to Armenia crashed, killing the 168 on board.	A very bad air crash happened in Iran last month, when a plane was going to Armenia and crashed, killing 168 people on board.
Hindi: माऊ आंदोलन द्वारा स्वतंत्रता के लिए आयोजित संघर्ष के दौरान, नगर में एक शांतिपूर्ण सभा में प्रमुख तापुआ तामासेसे सेलोफ़ी तृतीय की हत्या हो गई. = English: During the struggle for independence organised by the Mau movement, a peaceful gathering in the town resulted in the killing of the paramount chief Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III.	If you visit the Arctic or Antarctic areas in the winter you will experience the polar night, which means that the sun doesn't rise above the horizon.	If you go to the Arctic or Antarctic regions in winter, you will experience polar night, which means that the sun does not rise above the horizon.
Hindi: प्राचीन रोमन भोजन में बाद की शताब्दियों में अमेरिका या एशिया से यूरोप आए खाद्य पदार्थ शामिल नहीं हो सकते थे. = English: Ancient Roman meals couldn't have included foods that came to Europe from America or from Asia in later centuries.	This theory says that most dark matter around a galaxy is located around a galaxy in a kind of halo, and is made of lots of small particles.	This theory says that the deepest black matter in the vicinity of the galaxy is in the form of a halo and is made up of many small particles.
Hindi: ऐसे बच्चे “पाशविक प्रवृत्ति वाले” या जंगली कहलाते हैं. कुछ जंगली बच्चों को लोग (ज़्यादातार उनके माता-पिता) दुनिया से अलग रखते हैं. कुछ मामलों में बच्चों की किसी मानसिक या शारीरिक कमी की वजह से माता-पिता ऐसा करते हैं. = English: Such children are called "feral" or wild. Some feral children have been confined by people (usually their own parents); in some cases this child abandonment was due to the parents' rejection of a child's severe intellectual or physical impairment.	However, a nationwide road network is not economically viable for just a handful of cars, so new methods of production are developed to reduce the cost of car ownership.	Although the nationwide network of roads was not affordable for the few cars, production methods were developed to reduce the cost of buying a car.
Hindi: बाबा श्याम को छप्पन भोग (हिंदू धर्म में, 56 अलग-अलग खाद्य पदार्थ, जैसे, मिठाई, फल, मेवा, व्यंजन आदि जो देवता को चढ़ाए जाते हैं) की 108 थाली परोसी गईं. = English: 108 plates of Chhappan Bhog (in Hinduism, 56 different edible items, like, sweets, fruits, nuts, dishes etc. which are offered to deity) were served to Baba Shyam.	This term derives from ancient familiarity with Bed-bugs, which are insects highly adapted to parasitize humans.	The definition of the most optimal insect, bedbug, is based on the similarity with humans.
Hindi: लेकिन भूमध्य रेखा के कुछ ही डिग्री उत्तर में मौजूद “अत्यधिक उष्णकटिबंध” में होने की वजह से, आपको गर्मी (हमेशा) और तेज़ धूप (जब आसमान साफ़ हो, जो कि ज़्यादातर होता है) का सामना करना पड़ेगा. = English: But being placed in the "high tropics" just a few degrees north of equator you will need to deal with both heat (always) and strong sun (when the sky is clear, more rarely).	Many of the traditions surrounding the holiday have been adopted also by non-believers in Christian countries and non-Christians around the world.	Many of the traditions associated with Christmas have been adopted by non-Christian countries and people of other religions.
Hindi: एक एंटीबॉडी कॉकटेल, ZMapp, ने शुरुआत में इस क्षेत्र में विश्वास दिखाया था, लेकिन औपचारिक अध्ययनों ने संकेत दिया कि मौत को रोकने में प्रत्याशित लाभ की तुलना में इसका लाभ कम था। = English: One antibody cocktail, ZMapp, initially showed promise in the field, but formal studies indicated it had less benefit than sought in preventing death.	Farther south is Niagara Falls and the north is home to the untapped natural beauty of the Muskoka and beyond.	Far south of Niagara Falls is the natural beauty of the Muskoka and other places.
Hindi: उनकी अनुशासित रक्षा, गेंदबाजी की कला और टीम के अच्छे काम ने उन्हें बाहर खड़ा कर दिया और अब यह साफ हो गया था की ये टीम टक्कर देगी । = English: Their disciplined defence, ball handling skills and excellent team work made them stand out and it was clear that this was the team to beat.	Gothic style peaked in the period between the 10th - 11th centuries and the 14th century.	The Gothic style reached its peak in the 10th to 11th centuries and the 14th century.
Hindi: सिमिनॉफ़ ने कहा कि 2013 में शार्क टैंक एपिसोड में उनके दिखने के बाद बिक्री में बढ़ोतरी हुई, जहाँ शो पैनल ने स्टार्टअप को पूँजी लगाने से मना कर दिया. = English: Siminoff said sales boosted after his 2013 appearance in a Shark Tank episode where the show panel declined funding the startup.	One antibody cocktail, ZMapp, initially showed promise in the field, but formal studies indicated it had less benefit than sought in preventing death.	An antibody cocktail, ZMapp, initially showed promise in this area, but formal studies indicated that the expected benefit of preventing death was less than expected.
Hindi: डुवैल, जो विवाहित है और उसके दो वयस्क बच्चे हैं, उसने मिलर पर बड़ा असर नहीं किया, जिस से कहानी संबंधित है. = English: Duvall, who is married with two adult children, did not leave a big impression on Miller, to whom the story was related.	The use of video recording has led to important discoveries in the interpretation of micro-expressions, facial movements which last a few milliseconds.	Micro-expressions, facial movements that take a few seconds to interpret, have been promoted by the use of video recording in important discoveries.
Hindi: महान पिरामिड फेरो खुफू के सम्मान में बनाया गया था, और कई छोटे पिरामिड, कब्र और मंदिरों का निर्माण खुफू की पत्नियों और परिवार के सदस्यों के सम्मान में किया गया था। = English: The great pyramid was created to honor the Pharaoh Khufu, and many of the smaller pyramids, tombs, and temples were built to honor Khufu's wives and family members.	Most of the smaller islands are independent nations, or associated with France, and known as luxury beach resorts.	Most of the smaller islands are independent nations, or are related to France and are known as luxury beach resorts.
Hindi: 1920 के दशक के दौरान ज़्यादातर नागरिकों और देशों में शांतिवाद और अलगाव का नज़रिया प्रचलित था. = English: During the 1920s, the prevailing attitudes of most citizens and nations was that of pacifism and isolation.	Argentina is well known for having one of the best polo teams and players in the world.	Argentina is known as the best polo team and players in the world.
Hindi: यह संबंधित है, लेकिन आम तौर पर इसमें अल्पाइन शैली की स्की टूरिंग या माउंटेनीयरिंग शामिल नहीं होती है, जिसे खड़े इलाकों में किया जाता है और जिसके लिए बहुत कड़ी स्की और बूट की ज़रूरत होती है. = English: It is related to but usually not involving alpine style ski touring or mountaineering, the latter ones done in steep terrain and requiring much stiffer skis and boots.	He has been unable to take the drugs needed to overcome his pain as they are banned from the Games.	Unable to get relief from their pain, they were unable to take the necessary medicines as they were banned in sports.
Hindi: किसी भी बच्चे को कभी भी ऐसे वातावरण में नहीं बढ़ना चाहिए जो कि पालन पोषण करने, देखभाल करने वाला और शैक्षणिक न हो, लेकिन वे बढ़ रहे हैं. = English: No child should ever have to grow up in an environment that is not nurturing, caring, and educational, but they do.	They can also hold the reservation for you if you need time to think about the offer or procure other documents for your destination (e.g. visa).	If you want to think about the offer or get the documents (like visa) for the destination, they can also reserve the facility for you.
Hindi: 1990 मे, रेगिस्तान की रेत के खतरे के कारण इसे विश्व धरोहरों की सूची में डाला गया जो खतरे में हैं | = English: In 1990, it was added to the list of world heritage sites in danger, due to the threat of desert sands.	It is not something to be ashamed of: it is no different from the personal fears and dislikes of other things that very many people have.	There is no shame in it: it is not a private fear or dislike of things that everyone has.
Hindi: अमेरिकी राष्ट्रपति जॉर्ज डब्ल्यू बुश ने घोषणा का स्वागत किया. = English: U.S. President George W. Bush welcomed the announcement.	Fruit pastries are common, with apples cooked into pastries year round, and cherries and plums making their appearances during the summer.	Fruit pastries are common, made throughout the year with apples cooked into the pastry, and cherries and plums appearing in the summer.
Hindi: वेटिकन सिटी के सभी नागरिक रोमन कैथोलिक हैं. = English: All citizens of Vatican City are Roman Catholic.	A full 20 percent of the water that pours out of the planet's rivers into the oceans comes from the Amazon.	20% of the water that flows from our rivers to the oceans comes from the Amazon.
Hindi: एक और अंतर यह था कि जहाँ गरीब लोग और महिला कुर्सियों पर बैठकर खाना खाते थे, वहीं अमीर लोग मिलजुल कर दावतें करना पसंद करते थे और भोजन करते वक्त वे मौज मस्ती करते थे. = English: Another difference was that while the poor people and the woman ate their food while sitting in chairs, the rich men liked to have banquets together where they would lounge on their sides while they ate their meals.	Winter sports are most popular in the Northern regions, with Italians competing in international games and Olympic events.	The Italians who compete in international games and Olympic competitions with the Scandinavians, are the most popular in the northern regions.
Hindi: हालांकि, जो लोग थोड़ी स्पेनिश जानते हैं वे इससे सहमत हैं कि पुर्तगाली, स्पेनिश के इतने समान है की इसे अलग से अध्ययन करने की आवश्यकता नहीं है। = English: However, people who know a little Spanish may hastily conclude that Portuguese is close enough that it need not be studied separately.	The document, according to the leak, will refer to the borders dispute, which Palestine wants based on the borders before the 1967 Mideast War.	According to the leak, the document will refer to the dispute over the borders, which the Palestinian wants based on the 1967 Middle East war before the borders.
Hindi: फिर, लक्खा सिंह ने भजन गायकी की कमान संभाली. = English: Then, Lakkha Singh took the lead in singing the bhajans.	Though it is widely used, especially among non-Romani, the word "Gypsy" is often considered offensive because of its associations with negative stereotypes and inaccurate perceptions of Romani people.	It is widely used, especially by non-Romani people, but the negative stereotype and misconceptions of Romani people often make the word “zigeuner” offensive.
Hindi: इसी तरह, पुरुषों के लिए घुटनों को ढँकने वाले ट्राउज़र पहनना ज़रूरी है. = English: Along the same line, men are required to wear trousers covering the knees.	Scotturb Bus 403 travels regularly to Sintra, stopping at Cabo da Roca.	The Scotto bus 403 stops at the Kobar da Rato bus stop on its way to Sintra every day.
Hindi: एक बार का प्राचीन शहर स्मिर्ना, अब एक आधुनिक, विकसित और व्यस्त व्यवस्या का केन्द्र है, यह एक विशाल खाड़ी के साथ स्थित है और पहाड़ों से चारो ओर से घिरा हुआ है। = English: Once the ancient city of Smyrna, it is now a modern, developed, and busy commercial center, set around a huge bay and surrounded by mountains.	A binary number can have only one of two values, i.e. 0 or 1, and these numbers are referred to as binary digits - or bits, to use computer jargon.	A binary number can have only two values, 0 or 1, and these numbers are called binary digits - or computer jargon, bits.
Hindi: यहां कोई “बारिश” या “सूखे” का मौसम नहीं होता: बारिश की मात्रा लगभग पूरे साल ही एक जैसी रहती है. = English: There are no particular "rainy" and "dry" seasons: the amount of rain stays roughly the same throughout the year.	We don't know for sure, but it may have had a forked tongue. Its diet included turtles, large fish, other mosasaurs, and it may even have been a cannibal.	We do not know for sure, but it may have had spiny tongues. Its diet included turtles, large fish, other mosasaurs, and it may have been a predator.
Hindi: जापान में, पहले चेरी ब्लॉसम पार्टियों को सम्राट द्वारा केवल खुद और अपने खास समुदायों के अन्य सदस्यों के लिए इंपीरियल न्यायालय के आसपास होस्ट किया जाता था। = English: In Japan, the first cherry blossom parties were hosted by the emperor only for himself and other members of the aristocracy around the Imperial Court.	Several people verified the discovery using different hardware and software by the beginning of February and it was announced on Tuesday.	Many people confirmed the discovery in early February using a variety of hardware and software, and announced it on Tuesday.
Hindi: इस प्रारूप (सबसे सरल पूर्ण-संख्या अनुपात प्राप्त करने के लिए बारह से भाग देना) के अभिमुखता अनुपात को इसलिए 3:2 कहा जाता है। = English: The aspect ratio of this format (dividing by twelve to obtain the simplest whole-number ratio) is therefore said to be 3:2.	He is speculated to make a run for president in 2016.	He has predicted that he will win the 2016 presidential election.
Hindi: अगर कोई सवार घोड़े से फ़िंका जाता है लेकिन उसका पैर रकाब में फँस जाता है, तो घोड़े के भागने पर सवार खींचा जा सकता है. इस जोखिम को कम करने के लिए, कई सुरक्षा उपाय किए जा सकते हैं. = English: If a rider is thrown from a horse but has a foot caught in the stirrup, they could be dragged if the horse runs away. To minimize this risk, a number of safety precautions can be taken.	Travel agents usually offer packages that include breakfast, transportation arrangements to/from the airport or even combined flight and hotel packages.	Travel agents usually offer packages that include breakfast, airport transfers or air travel tickets as well as hotel accommodation.
Hindi: इस प्रारूप (सबसे सरल पूर्ण-संख्या अनुपात प्राप्त करने के लिए बारह से भाग देना) के अभिमुखता अनुपात को इसलिए 3:2 कहा जाता है। = English: The aspect ratio of this format (dividing by twelve to obtain the simplest whole-number ratio) is therefore said to be 3:2.	The lower the tension, the more positive the life force present. Every person has the potential to find absolute peace and contentment.	The less worry, the more positive life energy. Every human being can achieve ultimate peace and satisfaction.
Hindi: मरने वालों में 25 साल का निकोलस एल्डन और 21 साल का ज़ेचरी कडबैक शामिल था. कडबैक ड्राइवर था. = English: The fatalities were Nicholas Alden, 25, and Zachary Cuddeback, 21. Cuddeback had been the driver.	He added that "they should not, however, be asked to take on obligations that go beyond their development stage, responsibility and capabilities."	He said that “although they should not be expected to take on responsibilities beyond their stage of development, their responsibilities and capacities.”
Hindi: इसलिए, यह माना जा रहा है कि नोटेशन को सिर्फ़ एक लेबल के रूप में जोड़ा गया था. = English: So, it is likely that the notation was added simply as a label.	A satellite phone is not generally a replacement for a mobile phone, as you have to be outdoors with clear line of sight to the satellite to make a phone call.	Generally, satellite phones cannot be used in place of mobile phones, because you have to be outside your house to make a call using a satellite phone.
Hindi: बच्चों के लिए बनी जगह में पिरामिड साउंड एंड लाइट शो सबसे दिलचस्प चीज़ों में से एक है. = English: The pyramid sound and light show is one of the most interesting things in the area for kids.	Around the old Medina it's easy to find places selling traditional Moroccan goods, such as tagines, pottery, leather goods, hookahs, and a whole spectrum of geegaws, but it's all for the tourists.	Old Medina is full of places where Moroccan traditional items are sold, such as Tajine, pottery, leather goods, hookah, and a whole spectrum of Ghija, but all of this is for tourists.
Hindi: रीफ़ की कई यात्राएँ पूरे साल की जाती हैं और इनमें से किसी भी वजह से रीफ़ पर कभी-कभार ही चोट पहुँचती है. = English: Many trips to the reef are made all year around, and injuries due to any of these causes on the reef are rare.	It also had no authority to override tax laws and tariffs between states.	It had no power to override the laws and taxes of the states.
Hindi: मौजूदा 25 डनलप ब्रॉडसाइड अब तक बची हुई सबसे पुरानी कॉपी के डॉक्यूमेंट हैं. हाथ से लिखी गई मूल कॉपी सहेजी नहीं जा सकी है. = English: The 25 Dunlap broadsides still known to exist are the oldest surviving copies of the document. The original handwritten copy has not survived.	This was more like the four states of matter (in the same order): solid, liquid, gas, and plasma, though he also theorised that they change into new substances to form what we see.	It was mostly the same as the four states of matter (in the same order): solid, liquid, gas, and plasma, although they also established the theory that what we see is also transformed into new substances.
Hindi: साथ ही संयुक्त राष्ट्र संघ वैश्विक तापवृद्धि (ग्लोबल वार्मिंग) से प्रभावित देशों को इसके प्रभावों से निपटने में सहायता करने के लिए एक निधि को एकत्र करने की आशा करता है। = English: The U.N. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts.	Some roads have been damaged, railway service interrupted in the affected areas, and the Noto Airport in Ishikawa prefecture remains closed.	Some roads have been damaged, rail services have been disrupted, and the airport in Iwaki Prefecture has been closed.
Hindi: 17 सितंबर, 1939 तक, पोलिश रक्षापंक्ति लगभग टूट चुकी थी, और एक अकेली उम्मीद थी पीछे हटना और फिर रोमानियाई ब्रिजहेड के साथ एकजुट होना. = English: By September 17, 1939, the Polish defense was already broken, and the only hope was to retreat and reorganise along the Romanian bridgehead.	Arly Velasquez of Mexico finished fifteenth in the men's sitting Super-G. New Zealand's Adam Hall finished ninth in the men's standing Super-G.	Men's sitting super-G saw Mexico's early Valdez 15th, and Men's standing super-G saw New Zealand's Adam Hall 9th.
Hindi: कई सामान्य प्रारूप (उदाहरण के लिए, प्रारूप का APS परिवार) इस अभिमुखता अनुपात के लगभग बराबर या उसके आस-पास हैं. = English: Many common formats (APS family of formats, for example) are equal to or closely approximate this aspect ratio.	For some, understanding something about how aircraft work and what happens during a flight may help to overcome a fear which is based on the unknown or on not being in control.	For some, understanding how the plane works and what happens during flight can help alleviate a fear based on the unknown or uncontrollable.
Hindi: अंत में, कई ऐसी छोटी बिल्लियाँ (लूज़ पेट कैट्स सहित) हैं जो कीट, रोडंट्स, छिपकलियों और पक्षियों जैसे कई छोटे जीवों को खाती हैं. = English: Finally, there are many small cats (including loose pet cats) that eat the far more numerous small prey like insects, rodents, lizards, and birds.	The service is frequently used by shipping, including pleasure craft, as well as expeditions who have remote data and voice needs.	This service is usually used by shipping companies, including small vessels suitable for cruising, as well as campaigns that require remote data and voice services.
Hindi: राजनीतिक गतिरोध के बावजूद माल्डोवा के इन दो इलाकों में आर्थिक साझेदारी फिर से स्थापित हुई. = English: Economic links have been re-established between these two parts of Moldova despite the failure in political negotiations.	In some areas boiling water for a minute is enough, in others several minutes are needed.	In some areas, water needs to be boiled for a minute, in other areas, it needs to be boiled for several minutes.
Hindi: एडगर वेगुइला के हाथ और जबड़े जख्मि हो गये, जबकि क्रिस्टोफ़र श्नाइडर को चेहरे की पुनर्निर्माण सर्जरी की आवश्यकता थी। = English: Edgar Veguilla received arm and jaw wounds while Kristoffer Schneider was left requiring reconstructive surgery for his face.	Periodic rhythms, which are not simply responses to external periodic cues, have been documented for most living beings, including bacteria, fungi, plants, and animals.	Such periodic rhythms that are not mere reactions to external periodic signals have been recorded for bacteria, fungi, plants and animals, including most living organisms.
Hindi: फारसी में ज्यादातर सरल और नियमित व्याकरण है। = English: Persian has a relatively easy and mostly regular grammar.	While project based learning should make learning easier and more interesting, scaffolding goes a step beyond.	While project-based learning should make learning easier and more interesting, scaffolding takes it one step further.
Hindi: विदेश में रहने के बाद वापस घर लौटते समय, आप नई संस्कृति को अपना चुके होते हैं और अपनी घरेलू संस्कृति की कई आदतें खो चुके होते हैं. = English: When returning home after living abroad, you've adapted to the new culture and lost some of your habits from your home culture.	The mob of people forced the King And Queen to have their carriage windows wide open.	The crowd forced the king and queen to open the window of their car.
Hindi: यह कहने की कोई ज़रूरत नहीं कि यदि आप रोमांस लैंग्वेज़ जानते हैं, तो आपके लिए पुर्तगाली सीखना आसान होगा. = English: Needless to say, if you know a Romance language, it will be easier for you to learn Portuguese.	The Sundarbans has been declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The part of the forest within Indian territory is called Sundarbans National Park.	The Sundarbans has been declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. The part of the forest that is in India is called the Sundarbans National Park.
Hindi: फ्रांस में, मतदान परंपरागत रूप से एक कम तकनीक वाला अनुभव रहा है: मतदाता खुद को बूथ में अलग-थलग कर लेते हैं, एक कागज की एक पूर्व-मुद्रित शीट डालते हैं जो लिफाफे में उनकी पसंद के उम्मीदवार को दर्शाती है। = English: In France, voting has traditionally been a low-tech experience: voters isolate themselves in a booth, put a pre-printed sheet of paper indicating their candidate of choice into an envelope.	The term safari in popular use refers to overland travel to view the stunning African wildlife, particularly on savanna.	The word safari is particularly used to refer to the best African wildlife viewing in the Serengeti.
Hindi: पौधे फ़ोटोसिंथेसिस द्वारा सूर्य से अपना भोजन बनाते हैं. वह छाया भी देते हैं. = English: Plants make their food from the sun by photosynthesis. They also provide shade.	According to the lawsuit, waste from the UN camp was not properly sanitized, causing bacteria to enter the tributary of the Artibonite River, one of Haiti's largest.	According to the lawsuit, the waste from the UN camp was not properly cleaned, which led to bacteria entering the largest tributary of the Artibonite River, Haiti.
Hindi: यह कहने की कोई ज़रूरत नहीं कि यदि आप रोमांस लैंग्वेज़ जानते हैं, तो आपके लिए पुर्तगाली सीखना आसान होगा. = English: Needless to say, if you know a Romance language, it will be easier for you to learn Portuguese.	As long as you stay in this zone, you can generally cross borders without going through passport control checkpoints again.	As long as you live in this area, you can usually cross borders without passing through passport control checkpoints.
Hindi: ऑन साइट गतिविधियों के उदाहरणों में शामिल है शिकार, मछली पकड़ना, फोटोग्राफी, बर्ड वॉचिंग और पार्कों का दौरा करना और पारिस्थितिकी तंत्र के बारे में जानकारी का अध्ययन करना। = English: Examples of on-site activities include hunting, fishing, photography, bird watching, and visiting parks and studying information about the ecosystem.	Tommy Dreamer said "Luna was the first Queen of Extreme. My first manager. Luna passed away on the night of two moons. Pretty unique just like her. Strong woman."	Tommy Drimer said, “Luna was the Queen of Extreme. My first manager. Luna died on the famous two-moon night. That night was just like her. She was a very powerful woman.”
Hindi: टेलीविज़न रिमोट से मिलता-जुलता, कंट्रोलर तीन-आयामी स्पेस में अपनी स्थिति को त्रिभुजाकार बनाने के लिए उपयोगकर्ता के टेलीविज़न के पास रखे गए दो सेंसर का उपयोग करता है. = English: Resembling a television remote, the controller uses two sensors placed near the user's television to triangulate its position in three-dimensional space.	Out on the savanna, it is hard for a primate with a digestive system like that of humans to satisfy its amino-acid requirements from available plant resources.	In the savannah, plants that would meet the amino-acid requirements of a primate with a human-like digestive system may be scarce.
Hindi: 10वीं से लेकर 11वीं सदी के बीच और 14वीं सदी में गोथिक स्टाइल चरम पर थी. = English: Gothic style peaked in the period between the 10th - 11th centuries and the 14th century.	During this period of European history, the Catholic Church, which had become rich and powerful, came under scrutiny.	During this period, the Catholic Church, which had become rich and powerful, came under the scanner.
Hindi: दुर्घटना की जगह के पास गैरेज में काम कर रहे व्यक्ति ने बताया: “वहाँ सड़क पार करने का इंतज़ार कर रहे बच्चे थे, वे सब चिल्ला रहे थे और रो रहे थे.” = English: A person working in a garage near where the accident occurred said: "There were children waiting to cross the road and they were all screaming and crying."	Xinhua reported that government investigators recovered two 'black box' flight recorders on Wednesday.	Xinhua reported that government investigators recovered two "black box" flight recorders on Wednesday.
Hindi: “वह [वेल्स] शुरू से ही हमसे झूठ बोलता रहा है। सबसे पहले, ढोंग करते हुए कि यह कानूनी कारणों के लिए था। दूसरा, अपनी कला को हटाने के समय तक यह जताते हुए कि वह हमारी बात सुन रहा था।” = English: "He [Wales] basically lied to us from the start. First, by acting as if this was for legal reasons. Second, by pretending he was listening to us, right up to his art deletion."	Infrared images show that the temperature variations from night and day show that they are likely caves.	"Infrared images show that the temperature changes between night and day make them somewhat like caves."
Hindi: भवनों की परेड जिसने हाँगकाँग की स्कायलाइन को चमचमाते बार चार्ट की तरह बनाया है, उसने विक्टोरिया हार्बर के पानी की मौज़ूदगी को देखने लायक बनाया है. = English: The parade of buildings that make the Hong Kong skyline has been likened to a glittering bar chart that is made apparent by the presence of the waters of Victoria Harbour.	Many paleontologists today believe that one group of dinosaurs survived and is alive today. We call them birds.	Many palaeontologists still believe that a group of dinosaurs survived the extinction and are still alive today, we call them birds.
Hindi: 2011 के बाद से, कभी-कभी चुनाव कराने में रहने की वजह से हिंसक विरोध शुरू हो गया था. = English: The sometimes-violent protests were triggered by failure to hold elections, some due since 2011.	Nothing can be seen other than the clear, beautiful sky above and the many surrounding mountains. Very little of this world can be seen or heard from inside the cave.	The only thing visible from inside the cave is a clear atmosphere, a beautiful sky and the surrounding mountains. So, one can only see or hear a small part of the world from inside the cave.
Hindi: असल में फील्ड ट्रिप साझा करना यात्रा पर विचार करने और भविष्य की कक्षाओं के साथ अनुभव करने का एक शानदार तरीका है. = English: Sharing a field trip virtually is also a great way to reflect a on a trip and share experiences with future classes.	Since 1988, ballot boxes must be transparent so that voters and observers can witness that no envelopes are present at the start of the vote and that no envelopes are added except those of the duly counted and authorized voters.	Voting boxes should have been transparent since 1988 so that voters and observers could see that there was no envelope in the box before the vote was cast and that no other vote was cast in addition to the valid votes.
Hindi: वहाँ, उन्हें 53 वर्षीय सरोज बालासुब्रमण्यम का शव मिला, जो खून से सने कंबलों से ढका था. = English: There, they found the body of Saroja Balasubramanian, 53, covered with blood-stained blankets.	The war expenditures of U.S. imperialism in the conquest of the Philippines were paid for by the Filipino people themselves.	The war expenditure of American imperialism in the Philippines was paid by the Filipino people themselves.
Hindi: टूर्नामेंटों की खबरों के लिए और पोलो मैचों के लिए टिकट खरीदने के लिए, एसोसिएशन अर्जेंटीना दे पोलो को देखें। = English: For news on tournaments and where to buy tickets for polo matches, check Asociacion Argentina de Polo.	Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Texas governor Rick Perry, and Congresswoman Michele Bachmann finished in fourth, fifth, and sixth place, respectively.	Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Texas Governor Rick Perry, and Congresswoman Michele Bachmann respectively took fourth, fifth, and sixth place.
Hindi: कुछ सड़कें क्षतिग्रस्त हो गई हैं, प्रभावित क्षेत्रों में रेल सेवा बाधित हुई, और इशिकावा प्रांत में नोटो हवाई अड्डा बंद है. = English: Some roads have been damaged, railway service interrupted in the affected areas, and the Noto Airport in Ishikawa prefecture remains closed.	It warns No one can guarantee that any course of action in Iraq at this point will stop sectarian warfare, growing violence, or a slide toward chaos.	This warning that no one can guarantee that any action in Iraq will stop the sectarian war, rising violence or chaos.
Hindi: पिछले महीने ईरान में कई वर्षो बाद एक बेहद खराब हवाई हादसा हुआ, जब आर्मीनिया जा रहा एक विमान दुर्घटनाग्रस्त हो गया था, जिस पर सवार 168 लोगों की मौत हो गयी. = English: Last month Iran saw its worst air disaster in years when an airliner heading to Armenia crashed, killing the 168 on board.	During his trip, Iwasaki ran into trouble on many occasions.	During his journey, Iwaki was often in trouble.
Hindi: आख़िरकार, लोहे के पहियों ने लकड़ी के पहियों की जगह ले ली. 1767 में, पूरी तरह लोहे से बनी रेल की शुरुआत हो गई. = English: Eventually, wooden wheels were replaced by iron wheels. In 1767, the first full-iron rails were introduced.	Earlier this week, a police helicopter crash killed three people and wounded three more.	This week, three people died and three others were injured in a police helicopter accident.
Hindi: अरब के लोग इस धरती पर इस्लाम भी लेकर आए, और उसे कोमोरोस और मेयोटे में बड़े पैमाने पर फैलाया. = English: The Arabs also brought Islam to the lands, and it took in a big way in the Comoros and Mayotte.	There are still many men and women alive who survived their time here, and many more who had loved ones who were murdered or worked to death there, Jews and non-Jews alike.	Like Jews and non-Jews, there are still many men and women alive who managed to survive and many whose loved ones were killed or worked to death.
Hindi: “अप बो” चिह्न वी की तरह दिखता है और “डाउन बो” चिन्ह स्टेपल की तरह दिखता है या ऐसे चौकोर जैसा जिसका निचला हिस्सा गायब हो। = English: The "up bow" mark looks like a V and the "down bow mark" like a staple or a square missing its bottom side.	To the north and within easy reach is the romantic and fascinating town of Sintra and which was made famous to foreigners after a glowing account of its splendours recorded by Lord Byron.	North of and near to the attractive and romantic city of Siena is the city of San Gimignano, which was made famous by the great deeds of Lord Byron.
Hindi: हैतियन इंस्टीट्यूट फ़ॉर जस्टिस एंड डेमोक्रेसी ने स्वतंत्र अध्ययनों का हवाला देते हुए सुझाव दिया है कि नेपाली संयुक्त राष्ट्र शांति रक्षा बटालियन अनजाने में हैती में बीमारी लेकर आई है. = English: The Haitian Institute for Justice and Democracy has referenced independent studies that suggest the Nepalese UN peacekeeping battalion unknowingly brought the disease to Haiti.	Ring also settled a lawsuit with competing security company, the ADT Corporation.	Ring has settled a lawsuit with its competitor ADT Corporation.
Hindi: अधिकारियों के अनुमान के अनुसार साइट पर यूरेनियम ईंधन रखने वाले कंटेनर टूट गए होंगे और लीक हो रहे होंगे. = English: Authorities speculate that this indicates that containers holding uranium fuel at the site may have ruptured and are leaking.	Despite leaving the show in 1993 he kept the title of executive producer, and continued to receive tens of millions of dollars every season in royalties.	After leaving the show in 1993, he remained an executive producer and continued to earn millions of dollars in royalties every season.
Hindi: आजकल उपयोग किए जाने वाले सभी कंप्यूटर, जानकारी के हेरफेर पर आधारित हैं इन्हें बाइनरी नंबर के रूप में कोड किया गया है. = English: Virtually all computers in use today are based on the manipulation of information which is coded in the form of binary numbers.	When asked for comment, Miller said, "Mike talks a lot during the hearing...I was getting ready so I wasn't really hearing what he was saying."	When asked for a comment, Miller said, "Mike listens to a lot of things... I was getting ready so I wasn't really listening to what he was saying."
Hindi: ये सिद्धांत देखते हैं कि कुछ लोगों के बारे में ऐसी कौन-सी बातें हैं जो उन्हें वही चीज़ें करने के लिए कहती हैं जो वे चाहते हैं और उनके माहौल की कौनसी सी बाते हैं जो वे उन्हें कुछ चीज़ें करने या नहीं करने के लिए कहती हैं. = English: These theories look at what it is about certain people that make them want the things that they do and what things in their environment will make them do or not do certain things.	The Schengen zone, however, works somewhat like one country in this respect.	Although, Schengen zone does somewhat act like a country in this case.
Hindi: मध्य प्रदेश पुलिस ने चोरी हुए लैपटॉप और मोबाइल फ़ोन हासिल किए. = English: The Madhya Pradesh Police recovered the stolen laptop and mobile phone.	The games kicked off at 10:00am with great weather and apart from mid morning drizzle which quickly cleared up, it was a perfect day for 7's rugby.	The game started at 10:00 am in a very good weather and early morning drizzles, which soon ended, was a great day for the 7th rugby.
Hindi: अगर आप कुछ सामान्य शिष्टाचार दिखाते हैं, तो पेरिस से बाहर के लोग तेजी से गायब हो जाएँगे. = English: Parisians' abrupt exteriors will rapidly evaporate if you display some basic courtesies.	The Ninth Ward, which saw flooding as high as 20 feet during Hurricane Katrina, is currently in waist-high water as the nearby levee was overtopped.	The ninth ward, which was 20 feet high during Hurricane Katrina, is now waist-deep in water, because the nearby levee has risen higher.
Hindi: उनका ऊष्मीय व्यवहार पृथ्वी की बड़ी गुफाओं जैसा स्थिर नहीं है जो अक्सर काफी स्थिर तापमान बनाए रखती हैं, लेकिन यह जमीन के इन गहरे छेद के अनुरूप है,” यूनाइटेड स्टेट्स जियोलॉजिकल सर्वे (यूएसजीएस) की भूगर्भीय टीम और फ्लैगस्टाफ, एरिजोना में स्थित उत्तरी एरिजोना विश्वविद्यालय के ग्लेन कुशिंग ने कहा। = English: Their thermal behavior is not as steady as large caves on Earth that often maintain a fairly constant temperature, but it is consistent with these being deep holes in the ground," said Glen Cushing of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Astrogeology Team and of Northern Arizona University located in Flagstaff, Arizona.	The distinct characteristics of the Internet lead to additional dimensions in terms of the uses and gratifications approach.	Internet features have different dimensions that lead to additional dimensions of use and satisfaction from the perspective of the user.
Hindi: बर्फ़ीले तूफ़ान के दौरान, आपको फँसाने के लिए पर्याप्त बर्फ बहुत कम समय में गिर सकती है। = English: During blizzards, enough snow to get you stuck can fall in very little time.	The pyramid sound and light show is one of the most interesting things in the area for kids.	The pyramid sound and light show is one of the most interesting things for children in the place made for them.
Hindi: स्थानीय अधिकारी संयंत्र के आस-पास के क्षेत्र में निवासियों को चेतावनी दे रहे हैं कि वे घर के अंदर रहें, एयर-कंडीशनर बंद कर दें और नल का पानी न पिएँ. = English: Local authorities are warning residents in the vicinity of the plant to stay indoors, turn off air-conditioners and not to drink tap water.	Throughout 1960s, Brzezinski worked for John F. Kennedy as his advisor and then the Lyndon B. Johnson administration.	In the 1960s, Brzezinski worked as a consultant to John F. Kennedy and later to Lyndon B. Johnson's administration.
Hindi: स्कीइंग कई उत्साही लोगों के लिए एक प्रमुख यात्रा गतिविधि है, जिसे कभी-कभी “स्की बम्स” कहा जाता है, जिसमें विशेष स्थान पर स्कीइंग के इर्दगिर्द पूरी छुट्टियों की योजना बनाते हैं। = English: Skiing is a major travelling activity with many enthusiasts, occasionally known as "ski bums," planning entire vacations around skiing at a particular location.	On icy and snowy roadways, friction is low and you cannot drive as if you were on bare asphalt.	On snowy and icy roads, friction is reduced and you will not be able to drive as you would on a tarmac road.
Hindi: शुरुआती रिपोर्ट कहती है कि उरूमकी में आपातकालीन लैंडिंग से इनकार कर देने के बाद विमान को अफ़गानिस्तान वापस ले जाया गया था. = English: The early reports say the plane was diverted back to Afghanistan after being denied an emergency landing in Ürümqi.	Australia's Mitchell Gourley finished eleventh in the men's standing Super-G. Czech competitor Oldrich Jelinek finished sixteenth in the men's sitting Super-G.	Australia's Michael Groth finished 11th in the men's standing super-G, while the Czech competitor Ondrej Janiskej finished 16th in the men's sitting super-G.
Hindi: 1993 में शो छोड़ने के बाद भी वे एग्जीक्यूटिव प्रोड्यूसर के पद पर बने रहे और हर सीज़न में लाखों-करोड़ों डॉलर की रॉयल्टी लेते रहे. = English: Despite leaving the show in 1993 he kept the title of executive producer, and continued to receive tens of millions of dollars every season in royalties.	Police superintendent Chandra Shekhar Solanki said the accused appeared in court with covered faces.	Superintendent of Police Chandrashekhar Solanki said the accused appeared in court wearing masks.
Hindi: पिछले महीने एक प्रेसिडेंशियल कमीशन ने देश को नए चुनावों की ओर बढ़ने के उपाय के पैकेज के एक हिस्से के रूप में सीईपी के पूर्व त्यागपत्र की अनुशंसा की. = English: Last month a presidential commission recommended the prior CEP's resignation as part of a package of measures to move the country towards new elections.	During blizzards, enough snow to get you stuck can fall in very little time.	During a blizzard, you can get trapped by enough snow falling in a short time.
Hindi: पानी को शुद्ध करने के अनेक तरीके हैं, इसमें कुछ विशिष्ट खतरों को कम करने के लिये कारगर है। = English: There are different ways of purifying water, some more effective against specific threats.	Women did the cooking in the yard; stores were just open counters looking into the street. Stone was used for building houses.	Women cooked in the courtyard; stores were open counters on the street. Stone was used in the construction of houses.
Hindi: हमारे ग्रह की नदियों से महासागरों में जाने वाले पानी का 20% हिस्सा अमेज़न से आता है। = English: A full 20 percent of the water that pours out of the planet's rivers into the oceans comes from the Amazon.	During the 1980s he worked on shows such as Taxi, Cheers, and The Tracy Ullman Show.	In the 1980s, she had roles in Taxi, Cheers, and The Tracey Ullman Show.
Hindi: जबकि एक प्रायोगिक वैक्सीन इबोला से मृत्यु दर में कमी हो सकती है, अब तक, कोई भी ड्रग्स स्पष्ट रूप से संक्रमण का इलाज करने के लिए प्रमाणितनहीं हुआ है. = English: While one experimental vaccine appears able to reduce Ebola mortality, up until now, no drugs have been clearly demonstrated suitable for treating existing infection.	Christmas is one of the most important holidays of Christianity, and is celebrated as the birthday of Jesus.	Christmas is one of the most important holidays of the Christian faith and is celebrated as the birthday of Jesus.
Hindi: एक साक्षात्कार में, उन्होंने कहा कि नया प्रकार “बहुत ज़्यादा मृत्यु दर के कारण बहुत चिंताजनक और ख़तरनाक था”. = English: In an interview, he said the new variant was "very highly troubling and alarming because of the very high fatality rate."	Although three people were inside the house when the car impacted it, none of them were hurt.	Although three people were inside the house, none of them were injured when the car crashed.
Hindi: कल सुबह तुर्की के गाज़ियाँटेप में पुलिस मुख्यालय में एक कार बम विस्फोट हुआ, जिसमें दो पुलिस अधिकारी मारे गए और बीस से अधिक लोग घायल हुए. = English: A car bomb detonated at police headquarters in Gaziantep, Turkey yesterday morning killed two police officers and injured more than twenty other people.	An up-bow usually generates a softer sound, while a down-bow is stronger and more assertive.	A high-pitched sound usually produces a soft sound, while a low-pitched sound is strong and more vocal.
Hindi: गीज़ा पठार, “गीज़ा नेक्रोपोलिस” या मृतकों की मिस्र की घाटी में कई पिरामिड (जिनमें से द ग्रेट पिरामिड सबसे बड़ा है), कई छोटी कब्रें, कई मंदिर और महान स्फिंक्स हैं. = English: The Giza Plateau, or "Giza Necropolis" in the Egyptian Valley of the Dead contains several pyramids (of which the great pyramid is the largest), several small tombs, several temples, and the great Sphinx.	Michael Schumacher ended his race not long after Alonso, because of the suspension damage in the numerous battles during the race.	Michael Schumacher finished some time after Alonso because during the race several struggles with suspension damage were made.
Hindi: एक बार का प्राचीन शहर स्मिर्ना, अब एक आधुनिक, विकसित और व्यस्त व्यवस्या का केन्द्र है, यह एक विशाल खाड़ी के साथ स्थित है और पहाड़ों से चारो ओर से घिरा हुआ है। = English: Once the ancient city of Smyrna, it is now a modern, developed, and busy commercial center, set around a huge bay and surrounded by mountains.	She is in custody pending indictment and trial, but any eyewitness evidence may be tainted because her image has been widely published.	The case and trial are pending, but any eyewitness can be influenced, because his image has been widely published.
Hindi: टेक्नोलॉजिकल निर्धारणवाद एक ऐसा शब्द है, जो व्यवहार में विचारों की एक विस्तृत श्रृंखला को शामिल करता है, प्रौद्योगिकी-धक्का या तकनीकी अनिवार्यता से लेकर सख्त अर्थ तक कि मानव नियति वैज्ञानिक कानूनों और प्रौद्योगिकी में उनके प्रदर्शन से जुड़े एक अंतर्निहित तर्क से प्रेरित है। = English: Technological determinism is a term that encompasses a wide range of ideas in practice, from technology-push or the technological imperative to a strict sense that human destiny is driven by an underlying logic associated with scientific laws and their manifestation in technology.	Some reports put the official death toll at eight, and official reports confirm that up to 30 were injured; but final numbers are not yet known.	Some reports put the official death toll at eight, and official reports confirm that 30 were injured; but the final number is still unknown.
Hindi: आजकल एआई सिस्टम का इस्तेमाल अक्सर अर्थशास्त्र, दवाइयों, इंजीनियरिंग और सैन्य क्षेत्रों में किया जाता है, जैसा कि कई होम कंप्यूटर और वीडियो गेम सॉफ़्टवेयर ऐप्लिकेशन में बनाया गया है. = English: The AI ​​system is now often used in the fields of economics, medicine, engineering and the military, as has been built in several home computer and video game software applications.	The correlation between brain pathology and behaviour supports scientists in their research.	Brain disorders and behavior are supported by scientists in research.
Hindi: किसी समझौते पर हस्ताक्षर होने के बाद इज़राइल, वर्तमान सैन्य स्थिति को अगले दस सालों तक बनाए रखने की मांग करता है, जबकि पीए वर्तमान सैन्य स्थिति को केवल पांच साल तक जारी रखने के लिए सहमत है। = English: Israel demands an ongoing military presence in the valley for ten years once an agreement is signed while the PA agrees to leave such presence only for five years.	He even suggests that such abilities in interpreting human behavior may be shared by animals such as domestic dogs.	They also suggest that the interpretive capabilities of human behavior can be shared with a pet dog.
Hindi: अभी भी वे यह पता लगाने की कोशिश कर रहे हैं कि क्रैश कितना बड़ा था और धरती किस तरह से प्रभावित होगी. = English: They are still trying to determine just how large the crash was and how the Earth will be affected.	In an adoption, the birth parents terminate their parental rights so that another couple may parent the child.	In the adoption process, the birth parents relinquish their parental rights so that another couple can become the child's guardian.
Hindi: फिर बाद की रिपोर्ट्स में कहा गया था कि प्लेन को बम के ख़तरे की जानकारी मिली थी और उसे अफ़गानिस्तान की तरफ़ मोड़कर कांधार में उतारा गया था. = English: Later reports then stated the plane received a bomb threat and was diverted back to Afghanistan, landing in Kandahar.	They usually have special food, drink and entertainment offers, to keep guests in a good mood, and keep them at the premise.	They usually arrange for special food and entertainment to keep their guests in a good mood and to keep them there.
Hindi: ऑकलैंड के दो बंदरगाहों में फैले होने की वजह से, यहां कई समुद्री तट हैं. सबसे लोकप्रिय समुद्री तट तीन इलाकों में हैं. = English: There are many beaches, due to Auckland's straddling of two harbours. The most popular ones are in three areas.	The Sphinx is set as the backdrop and the narrator of a long story.	The Sphinx is a long-standing background story and narrator.
Hindi: कोई अतिरिक्त परिवहन नहीं लगाया जा रहा है और वेम्बली में ओवरग्राउंड ट्रेनें नहीं रुकेंगी, और ग्राउंड पर कार पार्किंग तथा पार्क और सवारी की सुविधाएँ उपलब्ध नहीं होंगी. = English: No extra transport is being put on and overground trains will not stop at Wembley, and car parking and park-and-ride facilities are unavailable at the ground.	A couple may decide it is not in their best interest, or in the interest of their child, to raise a baby.	A couple can decide that it is in their or their child's best interests not to have another child.
Hindi: शेरों का समूह वयस्क नर के साथ-साथ तीस से ज़्यादा मादा और शावकों के साथ एक से तीन तक का बना होता है. = English: Prides are made up of one to three related adult males, along with as many as thirty females and cubs.	The Iraq Study Group presented its report at 12.00 GMT today.	Iraq Study Group presented its report at 12.00 GMT today.
Hindi: इस प्रकार, जब पेंसिल आई तो यह कई लोगों के लिए एक अच्छी दोस्त थी. = English: Thus, the pencil was a good friend to many people when it came out.	Looking decidedly rusty in the game against their southern sisters, South Africa however steadily improved as the tournament progressed.	South Africa, which looked decidedly weak against its southern sisters in the tournament, has improved as the tournament progressed.
Hindi: सायन्यूरिक एसिड और मेलामाइन दोनों ही पालतू जानवरों के मूत्र के नमूनों में पाए गए जो दूषित पालतू भोजन के सेवन के बाद मर गए. = English: Both cyanuric acid and melamine were found in urine samples from pets that died after consuming contaminated pet food.	The Giza Plateau, or "Giza Necropolis" in the Egyptian Valley of the Dead contains several pyramids (of which the great pyramid is the largest), several small tombs, several temples, and the great Sphinx.	The Giza Plateau, "Giza Necropolis" or Valley of the Dead in Egypt, contains many pyramids (including the Great Pyramid, the largest), many smaller tombs, many temples and the Great Sphinx.
Hindi: लेकिन उन पक्षियों के बारे में बहुत सी चीजें हैं जो अभी भी डायनासोर जैसे दिखते हैं। = English: But there are a lot of things about birds that still look like a dinosaur.	Bipedal specializations are found in Australopithecus fossils from 4.2-3.9 million years ago, although Sahelanthropus may have walked on two legs as early as seven million years ago.	4.2 to 3.9 million years ago Australopithecus fossils have bipedal specialists, although it may have been 7 million years ago that Sahelanthropus could walk on two feet.
Hindi: गोद लेने की प्रक्रिया में, जन्म देने वाले माता-पिता अपने अभिभावकीय अधिकार ख़त्म कर देते हैं ताकि कोई दूसरा जोड़ा बच्चे का अभिभावक बन सके. = English: In an adoption, the birth parents terminate their parental rights so that another couple may parent the child.	The photographer was transported to Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, where he subsequently died.	The photographer was taken to UCLA Medical Center, where he later died.
Hindi: पुलिस ने कहा कि शव लगभग एक दिन पुराना है. = English: Police said that the body appeared to have been there for about a day.	Most interpretations of technological determinism share two general ideas: that the development of technology itself follows a path largely beyond cultural or political influence, and that technology in turn has "effects" on societies that are inherent, rather than socially conditioned.	Most interpretations of technological determinism are based on two general ideas: that cultural or political influence has no effect on technological development, and that as a result, technology is not socially adapted but instead “impacts” societies.
Hindi: इसकी स्थिति बारहवीं शताब्दी के दौरान मुख्य रूप से इस बात के कारण घट गई थी कि धर्म योद्धा रेशम और मसालों जैसे उपहार ले कर आए, जो कि बाइज़ेन्टिन बाजारों की पेशकश की तुलना में अधिक मूल्यवान थे। = English: Its status declined during the twelfth century mainly due to the fact that Crusaders had returned bearing gifts such as silks and spices that were valued more than what Byzantine markets offered.	But being placed in the "high tropics" just a few degrees north of equator you will need to deal with both heat (always) and strong sun (when the sky is clear, more rarely).	But being located only a few degrees north of the equator, you will have to face the heat (always) and the blazing sun (when the sky is clear, which is most of the time).
Hindi: एक साक्षात्कार में, उन्होंने कहा कि नया प्रकार “बहुत ज़्यादा मृत्यु दर के कारण बहुत चिंताजनक और ख़तरनाक था”. = English: In an interview, he said the new variant was "very highly troubling and alarming because of the very high fatality rate."	He referred to the rumors as "political chatter and silliness".	He called rumours "political nonsense and stupidity".
Hindi: नई तकनीकियों के बढ़ने से हम मस्तिष्क की रचना और प्रक्रियाओं को देखकर जाँच कर सकते हैं जो पहले कभी नहीं देखी गई. = English: The rise of new technologies allows us to see and investigate brain structures and processes never seen before.	The eathquake struck Mariana at 07:19 a.m. local time (09:19 p.m. GMT Friday).	A strong earthquake shook the island of Maraina at 07:19 local time (09:19 GMT Friday).
Hindi: उपसंस्कृति समान विचारधारा वाले व्यक्तियों को साथ लाती है जो सामाजिक मानकों में अपने आप को पिछड़ा हुआ महसूस करते हैं और उन्हें अपनी पहचान की भावना विकसित करने की अनुमति देते हैं। = English: Subcultures bring together like-minded individuals who feel neglected by societal standards and allow them to develop a sense of identity.	Posted speed limits are noticeably lower than in previous and subsequent sections — commonly 35-40 mph (56-64 km/h) — and strict obedience to them is even more important than otherwise.	The speed limits are much lower than before -usually 35-40 miles per hour (56-60 km per hour) and strict rules are necessary for them.
Hindi: यदि वे एयर फ़्रेट के ज़रिए चीज़ों को भेजते हैं, तो कुछ रूट्स पर अनलोडिंग करने और कस्टम के लिए कुछ दिन लग सकते हैं. = English: If they sent things by air freight, on some routes it may have taken days to get through unloading and customs.	It can be pulled into thin wire, which can be twisted and plaited. It can be hammered or rolled into sheets.	It can be drawn out on a fine wire, which can be bent and twisted. It can be beaten into sheets or rolled into a tube.
Hindi: मध्य युग के अंत में पश्चिमी यूरोप ने अपनी शैली विकसित करना शुरू कर दिया. धर्मयुद्ध के परिणामस्वरूप उस समय के सबसे बड़े विकास में से एक लोगों ने कपड़ों को बाँधने के लिए बटन का उपयोग करना शुरू किया = English: towards the end of the Middle Ages western Europe began to develop their own style. one of the biggest developments of the time as a result of the crusades people began to use buttons to fasten clothing.	But Prime Minister John Howard has said the act was only to safeguard the facilities of the hospital from being downgraded by the Tasmanian government, in giving an extra AUD$45 million.	but Prime Minister John Howard said that the act was only to save the hospital facilities from falling down by the government of Tasmania by providing an additional AUD $45 million.
Hindi: यह अवधारणा चीन से आई थी जहाँ बेर के फूल पसंदीदा फूल होते थे। = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	The panicked King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette and their two children (11-year-old Marie Therese and four-year-old Louis Charles) and the King's sister Madame Elizabeth were forced to leave the market by the crowd of women on 6 October 1789.
Hindi: यह पार्क 19,500 वर्ग किलोमीटर में फैला है और इसमें 14 अलग-अलग इको ज़ोन हैं, जिनमें से हर एक में अलग-अलग वन्यजीवन है. = English: The park covers 19,500 km² and is divided in 14 different ecozones, each supporting different wildlife.	After all, the leader is ultimately responsible for the success and failure of the team.	Ultimately, the leader is responsible for the success or failure of his team.
Hindi: एडगर वेगुइला के हाथ और जबड़े जख्मि हो गये, जबकि क्रिस्टोफ़र श्नाइडर को चेहरे की पुनर्निर्माण सर्जरी की आवश्यकता थी। = English: Edgar Veguilla received arm and jaw wounds while Kristoffer Schneider was left requiring reconstructive surgery for his face.	. Scientists say this animal's plumage was chestnut-brown on top with a pale or carotenoid-colored underside.	Scientists say that the animal's pores were brown and the carotenoid color underneath was brownish-gray.
Hindi: अंततः, हजारों या लाखों साल बाद, दोनों आबादियाँ इतनी अलग दिखाई देंगी कि उन्हें एक ही प्रजाति नहीं कहा जा सकेगा. = English: Eventually, after thousands or even millions of years, the two populations will look so different that they can't be called the same species.	Remember that even though music on the main stages may have finished, there may be sections of the festival that will keep playing music until late into the night.	Remember that the main stage will be silent after the music stops, but some parts of the festival will continue to play music until late at night.
Hindi: अंतर्देशीय जलमार्ग आनेवाली छुट्टियों के लिए एक अच्छा विषय हो सकता है। = English: Inland waterways can be a good theme to base a holiday around.	This sediment was necessary for creating sandbars and beaches, which served as wildlife habitats.	Sand and beach builders as wildlife habitation, required the silt.
Hindi: मौजूदा 25 डनलप ब्रॉडसाइड अब तक बची हुई सबसे पुरानी कॉपी के डॉक्यूमेंट हैं. हाथ से लिखी गई मूल कॉपी सहेजी नहीं जा सकी है. = English: The 25 Dunlap broadsides still known to exist are the oldest surviving copies of the document. The original handwritten copy has not survived.	However, the percentage of XDR-TB in the entire group of people with tuberculosis still seems to be low; 6,000 of the total 330,000 people infected at any particular moment in South Africa.	Although the percentage of XDR-TB in the total population of people with TB is still low; in South Africa at any given time, of the total 330,000 people, 6,000 are infected.
Hindi: देशभर के लोकप्रिय गायक श्री श्याम के चरणों में भजन या भक्तिगीत पेश करते हैं. = English: Famous singers across the country presented bhajans, or devotional songs, to Shri Shyam's feet.	Majorcan cuisine, like that of similar zones in the Mediterranean, is based on bread, vegetables and meat (specially pork), and uses olive oil throughout.	Majorcan cuisine, like that of the Mediterranean, is based on bread, vegetables, and meat (especially pork), and uses olive oil.
Hindi: अपनी जेब में 4 सेंट्स, कविता की एक पुस्तक और उनके थॉमस एडिसन को संबोधित सिफारिशी चिट्ठी (पिछली नौकरी के मैनेजर द्वारा लिखी) लेकर वे अमरीका पहुंचे. = English: He arrived in the US with 4 cents to his name, a book of poetry, and a letter of recommendation from Charles Batchelor (his manager in his previous job) to Thomas Edison.	In an interview, he said the new variant was "very highly troubling and alarming because of the very high fatality rate."	In an interview, he said that the new type was “very alarming and dangerous because of its high mortality rate”.
Hindi: शुल्क मुक्त खरीदारी कुछ स्थानों पर करों और उत्पाद शुल्क से छूट वाले सामान खरीदने का अवसर है. = English: Duty free shopping is the opportunity to buy goods exempted from taxes and excises at certain locations.	Although AI has a strong connotation of science fiction, AI forms a very important branch of computer science, dealing with behavior, learning and intelligent adaptation in a machine.	Although AI has a strong meaning in science fiction, it makes AI a very important branch of computer science, dealing with behavior, learning in machines and intelligent adaptation.
Hindi: पुरुषों के स्टैंडिंग सुपर-जी में ऑस्ट्रेलिया के मिशेल गौरले ग्यारहवें स्थान पर रहे. चेक प्रतियोगी ओल्डरिच जेलिनेक पुरुषों के सिटिंग सुपर-जी में सोलहवें स्थान पर रहे. = English: Australia's Mitchell Gourley finished eleventh in the men's standing Super-G. Czech competitor Oldrich Jelinek finished sixteenth in the men's sitting Super-G.	Every morning, people leave small country towns in cars to go their workplace and are passed by others whose work destination is the place they have just left.	They leave their cars in small towns to go to work and pass the work place that they have just left.
Hindi: धूमकेतु अंग के साथ संभवतः पृथ्वी पर जल वितरण का स्रोत हो सकता है|” = English: Comets may possibly have been a source of water delivery to the earth along with organic matter that can form proteins and support life.	When a small group of living things (a small population) gets separated from the main population that they came from (like if they move over a mountain range or a river, or if they move to a new island so that they can't easily move back) they will often find themselves in a different environment than they were in before.	When a small group of living things (a small population) separates from the main population from which they came (for example, if they came from a mountain range or river or if they go to a new island so that they cannot easily retreat), they often find themselves in a different environment.
Hindi: आजकल कई Sámi आधुनिक व्यापार में काम करते हैं, Sápmi, जो कि Sámi लोगों से बसा हुआ है, में पर्यटन एक बहुत ही अहम् आमदनी का हिस्सा है। = English: Today many Sámi work in modern trades. Tourism is an important income in Sápmi, the Sámi area.	It can be made very thin, and stuck onto other metal. It can be made so thin that it was sometimes used to decorate the hand-painted pictures in books called "illuminated manuscripts".	It can be made very thin and used on other metals. It can be made so thin that it is sometimes used to decorate handmade pictures in the "published manuscripts" books.
Hindi: यूरोप एक ऐसा महाद्वीप है जो अपेक्षाकृत छोटा है लेकिन इसमें कई स्वतंत्र देश हैं. सामान्य परिस्थिति में कई देशों की यात्रा करने का मतलब कई बार वीज़ा आवेदन और पासपोर्ट कंट्रोल की प्रक्रिया से गुज़रना है. = English: Europe is a continent that is relatively small but with many independent countries. Under normal circumstances, travelling through multiple countries would mean having to go through visa applications and passport control multiple times.	People have known about basic chemical elements such as gold, silver, and copper from antiquity, as these can all be discovered in nature in native form and are relatively simple to mine with primitive tools.	People have known about gold, silver, and copper, which are chemical elements, since ancient times, because they can be found in their original form in nature and can be found using simple tools.
Hindi: जब सभी उपलब्ध संसाधन किसी संगठन के कार्यात्मक विभागों में प्रभावी रूप से उपयोग किए जाते हैं, तो रचनात्मकता और सरलता दोनों ही मुमकिन हो जाते हैं। = English: When all available resources are effectively used across the functional departments of an organization, creativity and ingenuity can transpire.	We perceive the Foster Care System to be a safety zone for these children.	We consider foster care system as a safe haven for these children.
Hindi: नींद की रुकावट आपके सामान्य नींद की अवधि के दौरान आपको जगाने की प्रक्रिया है और थोड़े समय बाद (10-60 मिनट) यह चली जाती है । = English: Sleep interruption is the process of purposefully awakening during your normal sleep period and falling asleep a short time later (10–60 minutes).	The rise of new technologies allows us to see and investigate brain structures and processes never seen before.	New technologies have allowed us to see the structure and processes of the brain in ways that were never seen before.
Hindi: स्टेशन की वेबसाइट ने शो को “नए और ख़राब तरीके से अव्यवस्थित घुमाव के साथ पुराने समय के रेडियो थिएटर” के रूप में बताया है. = English: The station's web site describes the show as "old school radio theater with a new and outrageous geeky spin!"	The parade of buildings that make the Hong Kong skyline has been likened to a glittering bar chart that is made apparent by the presence of the waters of Victoria Harbour.	The parade of buildings that has made Hong Kong's skyline a glittering bar chart has also made Victoria Harbour a place to see and be seen.
Hindi: बाबा श्याम को छप्पन भोग (हिंदू धर्म में, 56 अलग-अलग खाद्य पदार्थ, जैसे, मिठाई, फल, मेवा, व्यंजन आदि जो देवता को चढ़ाए जाते हैं) की 108 थाली परोसी गईं. = English: 108 plates of Chhappan Bhog (in Hinduism, 56 different edible items, like, sweets, fruits, nuts, dishes etc. which are offered to deity) were served to Baba Shyam.	Mutation adds new genetic variation, and selection removes it from the pool of expressed variation.	Mutation adds new genetic variation, and selection removes it from the pool of expressed variation.
Hindi: नेक्स्टजेन प्रणाली बारे में एफएए का दावा है कि इससे विमान को छोटे मार्गों से उड़ाना और हर साल लाखों गैलन ईंधन बचाना संभव होगा और इससे कार्बन उत्सर्जन में भी कमी आएगी। = English: NextGen is a system the FAA claims would allow aircraft to fly shorter routes and save millions of gallons of fuel each year and cut carbon emissions.	A course will normally be from 2-5 days and will involve role play, a lot of first aid and sometimes weapons training.	A course will typically last 2 to 5 days and will include role-playing, a lot of first aid and sometimes weapons training.
Hindi: मध्य प्रदेश पुलिस ने चोरी हुए लैपटॉप और मोबाइल फ़ोन हासिल किए. = English: The Madhya Pradesh Police recovered the stolen laptop and mobile phone.	He arrived in the US with 4 cents to his name, a book of poetry, and a letter of recommendation from Charles Batchelor (his manager in his previous job) to Thomas Edison.	He arrived in America with 4 cents in his pocket, a poem book and a letter addressed to Thomas Edison (written by his previous manager).
Hindi: अभी तक कई बंधकों को बचा लिया गया है और कम से कम छह के मारे जाने की पुष्टि हुई है. = English: Several hostages have been rescued and least six have been confirmed dead so far.	It isn’t alone though, experimentation, and an experiment is a test that is used to eliminate one or more of the possible hypotheses, asking questions, and making observations also guide scientific research.	Although it is not alone, the use of the word, and the use of a test is used to eliminate one or more possible hypotheses, question, and observation to scientific research guidance is also provided.
Hindi: पुलिस ने कहा कि शव लगभग एक दिन पुराना है. = English: Police said that the body appeared to have been there for about a day.	Ottawa is Canada's charming, bilingual capital and features an array of art galleries and museums that showcase Canada's past and present.	Ottawa is Canada's attractive, bilingual capital and has many art galleries and museums that display Canada's past and present.
Hindi: कई सामान्य प्रारूप (उदाहरण के लिए, प्रारूप का APS परिवार) इस अभिमुखता अनुपात के लगभग बराबर या उसके आस-पास हैं. = English: Many common formats (APS family of formats, for example) are equal to or closely approximate this aspect ratio.	He was initially hospitalised in the James Paget Hospital in Great Yarmouth.	He was first admitted to Great Yarmouth's James Paget Hospital.
Hindi: ब्लॉग्स का सही इस्तेमाल “स्टूडेंट्स को ज्यादा विश्लेषणात्मक और विवेचनात्मक बनाने के लिए सशक्त बना सकते हैं; इंटरनेट सामग्रियों पर सक्रिय रूप से जवाब देकर, स्टूडेंट्स दूसरों के लेखन के संदर्भ में अपनी स्थितियों को परिभाषित कर सकते हैं. साथ ही किसी खास विषय पर खुद के दृष्टिकोण को ऑनलाइन कर सकते हैं (ओरावेक, 2002). = English: Appropriate use of blogs "can empower students to become more analytical and critical; through actively responding to Internet materials, students can define their positions in the context of others' writings as well as outline their own perspectives on particular issues (Oravec, 2002).	A person working in a garage near where the accident occurred said: "There were children waiting to cross the road and they were all screaming and crying."	A person working in a garage near the accident site said: "There were children waiting to cross the road, they were all screaming and crying."
Hindi: पिछले हफ्ते, METI ने घोषणा की कि Apple ने 34 ओवरहीटिंग के मामले सामने आये है , जिसे कंपनी ने गंभीरता से नहीं लिया । = English: Last week, METI announced that Apple had informed it of 34 additional overheating incidents, which the company called "non-serious."	Such children are called "feral" or wild. Some feral children have been confined by people (usually their own parents); in some cases this child abandonment was due to the parents' rejection of a child's severe intellectual or physical impairment.	Such children are called "instinctive" or "wild". Some wild children are kept away from the world (mostly by their parents). In some cases, parents keep their children away from the world because of some mental or physical deficiency.
Hindi: लोगों की भीड़ ने राजा और रानी को अपनी गाड़ी की खिड़की खोलने के लिए मजबूर किया. = English: The mob of people forced the King And Queen to have their carriage windows wide open.	Virtual team members often function as the point of contact for their immediate physical group.	Virtual team members often act as a point of contact for their immediate physical group.
Hindi: उदाहरण के लिए, “लर्निंग” और “सोशलाइजेशन” को इंटरनेट इस्तेमाल करने की अहम वजह के तौर पर बताया गया है (जेम्स एट अल., 1995). = English: For example, “learning” and “socialization” are suggested as important motivations for Internet use (James et al., 1995).	Elements like calcium and potassium are considered metals. Of course, there are also metals like silver and gold.	Calcium and potassium are considered metals. Of course, there are also metals like silver and gold.
Hindi: इसके शुरुआती दिनों में, इस शो को केवल लंबे समय तक चलने वाली इंटरनेट रेडियो साइट TogiNet रेडियो, टॉक रेडियो पर केंद्रित एक साइट पर फ़ीचर किया गया था. = English: In its early days, the show was featured solely at the long-running internet radio site TogiNet Radio, a site focused on talk radio.	While Goma is reasonably safe, any visits outside of Goma should be researched to understand the state of the fighting that persists in the North Kivu province.	Although Goma is reasonably safe, it is important to understand the situation in North Kivu province, where fighting is ongoing.
Hindi: यातायात प्रवाह को बेहतर तरीके से दिखाने के लिए, तीन मुख्य विशेषताओं में संबंद्ध बनाया गया है: (1) प्रवाह, (2) घनत्व, और (3) वेग। = English: To better represent traffic flow, relationships have been established between the three main characteristics: (1) flow, (2) density, and (3) velocity.	The age where the events took place is commonly referred as the High Middle Ages the period of European history in the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries (AD 1000–1300).	The period in which events occurred is generally referred to as the High Middle Ages in European history, the period from the 11th to the 13th century (AD 1000-1300) of the European Middle Ages.
Hindi: आरोपियों के नाम बाबा कंजर, भूथा कंजर, रामप्रो कंजर, गाज़ा कंजर और विष्णु कंजर हैं। = English: The accused are named as Baba Kanjar, Bhutha Kanjar, Rampro Kanjar, Gaza Kanjar and Vishnu Kanjar.	Though each country was 'Scandinavian', there were many differences between the people, kings, customs and history of Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Iceland.	Although every country was "Scandinavian", there were many differences between the people, kings, customs and history of Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Iceland.
Hindi: पिछले महीने एक प्रेसिडेंशियल कमीशन ने देश को नए चुनावों की ओर बढ़ने के उपाय के पैकेज के एक हिस्से के रूप में सीईपी के पूर्व त्यागपत्र की अनुशंसा की. = English: Last month a presidential commission recommended the prior CEP's resignation as part of a package of measures to move the country towards new elections.	Giancarlo Fisichella lost control of his car and ended the race very soon after the start.	Giancarlo Fisichella lost control of his car and retired a few laps into the race.
Hindi: प्रायद्वीप के पहाड़ यहाँ आकर पठार में मिल जाते हैं, फिर वापस उभरकर वे मिनेसोटा ग्लेशियर द्वारा दो हिस्सों में काटे गए एल्सवर्थ माउंटेंस की 360 किलोमीटर लंबी श्रृंखला बनाते हैं. = English: The mountains of the Peninsula here merge into the plateau, then re-emerge to form the 360 km chain of the Ellsworth Mountains, bisected by the Minnesota Glacier.	In the manner that Paris is known as the fashion capital of the contemporary world, Constantinople was regarded as the fashion capital of feudal Europe.	As Paris is known today as the fashion capital of the world, Constantinople was considered the fashion capital of feudal Europe.
Hindi: यातायात प्रवाह को बेहतर तरीके से दिखाने के लिए, तीन मुख्य विशेषताओं में संबंद्ध बनाया गया है: (1) प्रवाह, (2) घनत्व, और (3) वेग। = English: To better represent traffic flow, relationships have been established between the three main characteristics: (1) flow, (2) density, and (3) velocity.	Perry stated that he would "return to Texas to assess the results of tonight's caucus, determine whether there is a path forward for myself in this race", but later said that he would remain in the race and compete in the January 21 South Carolina primary.	Perry said that he would "assess the results of today's caucuses in Texas to determine what path is best for him going forward," but later said that he would remain in the race and would primarily campaign in South Carolina on January 21.
Hindi: यह आज भी बनाया जाता है, लेकिन इससे भी महत्वपूर्ण बात यह है कि इसका अभिमुखता अनुपात डिजिटल कैमरा इमेज सेंसर प्रारूपों द्वारा विरासत में मिला है. = English: It is still produced today, but more importantly its aspect ratio has been inherited by digital camera image sensor formats.	Naturalists and philosophers focused on classical texts and, in particular, on the Bible in Latin.	Naturists and philosophers have paid attention to classical texts and especially to Latin writings of the Bible.
Hindi: स्प्रिंगबोक्स के लिए, इसने पांच-मैचों की हार का सिलसिला समाप्त कर दिया. = English: For the Springboks, it ended a five-match losing streak.	He was greeted by Singapore's Deputy Prime Minister Wong Kan Seng and discussed trade and terrorism issues with the Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.	He was welcomed by Singapore's Deputy Prime Minister Wong Kan Seng and had talks with Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong on trade and terrorism.
Hindi: शार्कों का अस्तित्व है, हालाँकि वे शायद ही कभी मनुष्यों पर हमला करते हैं। अधिकांश शार्क मनुष्यों से डरते हैं और तैर कर दूर चले जाते हैं। = English: Sharks do exist, however they rarely attack humans. Most sharks are scared of humans and would swim away.	The disease is carried by pigs, which then migrates to humans through mosquitos.	This disease is caused by pigs, which then spread to humans through mosquitoes.
Hindi: द्वीपों के बाहर फ़ॉकलैंड की करंसी को बदलना लगभग असंभव है, इसलिए द्वीप छोड़ने से पहले पैसों को बदलवा लें. = English: It is nearly impossible to exchange Falklands currency outside of the islands, so exchange money prior to leaving the islands.	This seems sensible, because the Earth doesn't feel as if it's moving, does it?	It seems reasonable, because it doesn't feel like the earth is moving, does it?
Hindi: अगर आप किसी औपचारिक रूप से व्यवस्थित बगीचे में जाते हैं, तो वहां से “नमूने” इकट्ठे करने पर भी आपको बिना किसी चर्चा के बाहर निकाल दिया जाता है. = English: If visiting a formally arranged garden, collecting "specimens" is also going to get you ejected, without discussion.	Taiwan beginning start way back in 15th century where European sailors passing by record the island’s name as Ilha Formosa, or beautiful island.	The discovery of Taiwan was made by European sailors in the 15th century. They called this island Ilha Formosa or Beautiful Island.
Hindi: अपनी यात्रा के दौरान, इवासाकी कई मौकों पर परेशानियों में फंस गया था. = English: During his trip, Iwasaki ran into trouble on many occasions.	The 802.11n standard operates on both the 2.4Ghz and 5.0Ghz frequencies.	802.11n standard works on both 2.4 GHz and 5.0 GHz frequencies.
Hindi: हालाँकि, ड्राइवर के सिर में गंभीर चोटें आई थी. = English: However, the driver sustained serious injuries to the head.	Blogs can also help improve student writing. While students often begin their blog experience with sloppy grammar and spelling, the presence of an audience generally changes that.	Blogs can help students improve their writing. Where students often start their blogging experience with haphazard grammar and spelling, the audience's presence often brings about a change.
Hindi: हर साल दर्जनों आगंतुक इसलिए घायल हो जाते हैं क्योंकि वे उचित दूरी नहीं रखते. ये जानवर बड़े, जंगली और शायद खतरनाक भी हैं, इसलिए उनसे दूरी बनाए रखें. = English: Each year, dozens of visitors are injured because they didn't keep a proper distance. These animals are large, wild, and potentially dangerous, so give them their space.	Backpacking by ski: This activity is also called backcountry ski, ski touring or ski hiking.	Backpacking by ski: This activity is also known as backcountry skiing, ski touring, or ski hiking.
Hindi: फिर, लक्खा सिंह ने भजन गायकी की कमान संभाली. = English: Then, Lakkha Singh took the lead in singing the bhajans.	To get the best views of Hong Kong, leave the island and head for the Kowloon waterfront opposite.	To get the best views of Hong Kong, leave the island and walk along the Kowloon waterfront.
Hindi: हालाँकि, उन्होंने शटल में किसी तरह के नुकसान होने के बारे में नहीं सोचा. = English: However, they are not thought to have caused any damage to the shuttle.	In addition, be aware that odors attract bears and other wildlife, so avoid carrying or cooking odorous foods and keep a clean camp.	Also be aware that sulphur bears and other wildlife are attracted to sulphur, so avoid carrying or cooking food that smells of sulphur and keep your camp clean.
Hindi: NPWS के उद्यान संरक्षण और विरासत के कार्यवाहक निदेशक, मिक ओफ्लिन के अनुसार, शूटिंग ऑपरेशन के लिए चुने गए पहले चार निशानेबाजों को सुरक्षा और प्रशिक्षण से जुड़े व्यापक निर्देश मिले हैं. = English: According to Mick O'Flynn, the Acting Director Park Conservation and Heritage with the NPWS, the four shooters selected for the first shooting operation received comprehensive safety and training instruction.	Because the dinosaur feathers do not have a well-developed shaft, called a rachis, but do have other features of feathers — barbs and barbules — the researchers inferred the rachis was likely a later evolutionary development that these other features.	Although the pterosaurs' wing shafts are not fully developed and are called rachises, they have other features like barbs and barbules like other feathers. Researchers have estimated that the other features of the pterosaurs, like the rachises, may have developed later.
Hindi: अपने दर्द को दूर करने के लिए वे ज़रूरी दवाओं को लेने में असमर्थ हो गए क्योंकि वे दवाइयाँ खेलों में प्रतिबंधित थीं. = English: He has been unable to take the drugs needed to overcome his pain as they are banned from the Games.	New Kingdom ancient Egyptians marvelled at their predecessors monuments, which were then well over a thousand year old.	The New Kingdom was astonished by the monuments of its predecessors, which were a thousand years old or more.
Hindi: यदि आप खुद को अपनी नींद में घड़ी को रीसेट करते हुए पाते हैं, तो इसे कमरे के दूसरी तरफ रखिये , जिससे आपको इसे बंद करने के लिए बिस्तर से मजबूरन उठना ही पड़ेगा । = English: If you find yourself resetting the clock in your sleep, it can be placed on the other side of the room, forcing you to get out of bed to turn it off.	The amount of inner peace a person possesses correlates oppositely to the amount of tension in one’s body and spirit.	The amount of inner peace in a person is inversely proportional to the amount of stress in his body and soul.
Hindi: पिछले महीने ईरान में कई वर्षो बाद एक बेहद खराब हवाई हादसा हुआ, जब आर्मीनिया जा रहा एक विमान दुर्घटनाग्रस्त हो गया था, जिस पर सवार 168 लोगों की मौत हो गयी. = English: Last month Iran saw its worst air disaster in years when an airliner heading to Armenia crashed, killing the 168 on board.	Mutations can have a variety of different effects depending on the type of mutation, the significance of the piece of genetic material affected and whether the cells affected are germ-line cells.	The kinds of mutations, the importance of the affected genetic material and whether the affected cells are germ-line cells, all affect the impact of mutations in different ways.
Hindi: उन्होंने कहा “कि अब हमारे पास 4 महीने उम्र वाले चूहे हैं जिन्हें मधुमेह नहीं है जो मधुमेह के रोगी थे। ” = English: "We now have 4-month-old mice that are non-diabetic that used to be diabetic," he added.	A doctor who worked at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania will be charged with aggravated murder after her mother was found dead in the trunk of her car Wednesday, authorities in Ohio say.	An Ohio doctor who worked at the Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania will face murder charges after her body was found in the trunk of her car Wednesday, authorities said.
Hindi: वहीं दूसरी ओर, कई देशों में ठंडी और बर्फ़ भरी परिस्थितियां होना आम बात है, और ट्रैफ़िक पूरे साल ज़्यादातर बिना रुकावट चलता रहता है. = English: On the other hand, icy and snowy conditions are normal in many countries, and traffic goes on mostly uninterrupted all year round.	They are still trying to determine just how large the crash was and how the Earth will be affected.	They are still trying to find out how big the crash was and how the earth will be affected.
Hindi: 1966 से सुंदरबन वन्यजीव अभ्यारण बन गया है और एक आकलन के अनुसार इस इलाके में अब लगभग 400 रॉयल बंगाल टाइगर्स और लगभग 30,000 चीतल हैं. = English: Since 1966 the Sundarbans have been a wildlife sanctuary, and it is estimated that there are now 400 Royal Bengal tigers and about 30,000 spotted deer in the area.	Prides are made up of one to three related adult males, along with as many as thirty females and cubs.	A tiger group consists of an adult male, 30 or more females and cubs, and may be one to three in number.
Hindi: अमेरिकी जिमनास्टिक्स, संयुक्त राज्य ओलंपिक समिति के पत्र का समर्थन करता है. साथ ही, सभी एथलीटों को एक सुरक्षित माहौल देने के लिए, ओलंपिक परिवार के होने की अहमियत स्वीकार करता है. = English: USA Gymnastics supports the United States Olympic Committee's letter and accepts the absolute need of the Olympic family to promote a safe environment for all of our athletes.	In late 2017, Siminoff appeared on shopping television channel QVC.	In the end of 2017, Simone Biles appeared on the QVC shopping television channel.
Hindi: आधुनिक काल से पहले की वेधशालाएँ आजकल आम तौर पर पुरानी हो चुकी हैं और उन्हें संग्रहालयों या शैक्षणिक स्थानों की तरह रखा जाता है. = English: Pre-modern observatories are usually obsolete today, and remain as museums, or sites of education.	Soon, officers equipped with riot gear entered the yard and cornered the inmates with tear gas.	Soon, riot geared officers entered the compound and subdued the prisoners with tear gas.
Hindi: आधुनिक काल से पहले की वेधशालाएँ आजकल आम तौर पर पुरानी हो चुकी हैं और उन्हें संग्रहालयों या शैक्षणिक स्थानों की तरह रखा जाता है. = English: Pre-modern observatories are usually obsolete today, and remain as museums, or sites of education.	The AI ​​system is now often used in the fields of economics, medicine, engineering and the military, as has been built in several home computer and video game software applications.	Today, AI systems are used in economics, medicine, engineering, and the military, as in many home computer and video game software applications.
Hindi: कैलिफोर्निया के गवर्नर अर्नोल्ड श्वार्ज़नेगर ने कानून में एक बिल पर हस्ताक्षर किए, जो नाबालिगों को हिंसक वीडियो गेम उन्हें बेचने या किराये पर देने से प्रतिबंध लगाता है। = English: California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed into law a bill that bans the sale or rental of violent video games to minors.	The city is in stark contrast to the rest of the country's cities, because it has more of an Arabic flair than of an African.	This city is different from the rest of the country because it looks more like an Arab city than an African city.
Hindi: चूँकि इस रणनीति को सीमित प्रतिसाद ही मिला था, इसलिए जर्मनी ने अपने अप्रतिबंधित पनडुब्बी युद्ध को लेकर भी इसी तरह के प्रतिसाद की उम्मीद की थी. = English: Since there was limited response to this tactic, Germany expected a similar response to its unrestricted submarine warfare.	Technology offers the solution with virtual field trips. Students can look at museum artifacts, visit an aquarium, or admire beautiful art while sitting with their class.	Technology provides some solutions with virtual field trips. Students can view museum artifacts, take a fish tank tour, or enjoy beautiful artwork together in their classroom.
Hindi: किसी समझौते पर हस्ताक्षर होने के बाद इज़राइल, वर्तमान सैन्य स्थिति को अगले दस सालों तक बनाए रखने की मांग करता है, जबकि पीए वर्तमान सैन्य स्थिति को केवल पांच साल तक जारी रखने के लिए सहमत है। = English: Israel demands an ongoing military presence in the valley for ten years once an agreement is signed while the PA agrees to leave such presence only for five years.	The "up bow" mark looks like a V and the "down bow mark" like a staple or a square missing its bottom side.	The “up bow” symbol looks like a V and the “down bow” symbol looks like a staple or a square with the bottom missing.
Hindi: तीसरी शताब्दी ईसा पूर्व में मिस्रियों द्वारा निर्मित, ग्रेट पिरामिड मृत फिरौन का सम्मान करने के लिए निर्मित कई बड़ी पिरामिड संरचनाओं में से एक है। = English: Built by the Egyptians in the third century BCE, the Great Pyramid is one of many large pyramid structures built to honor dead Pharaoh.	As one example, American citizens in the Middle East might face different situations from Europeans or Arabs.	As an example, American citizens in the Middle East may face different situations from Europeans or Arabs.
Hindi: आप पिरामिड को शो शुरू होने से पहले अंधेरे में शांति से देख सकते हैं. = English: You can see the pyramids in the dark and you can see them in silence before the show begins.	The presence of a true “invisible team” (Larson and LaFasto, 1989, p109) is also a unique component of a virtual team.	A true “invisible team” (Larsen and LaFasto, 1989, p109) is also a unique component of virtual teams.
Hindi: एनएचके ने भी सूचना दी कि निगाता प्रांत में काशीवाज़की करिवा परमाणु ऊर्जा संयंत्र सामान्य रूप से काम कर रहा था. = English: NHK also reported that the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear power plant in Niigata prefecture was operating normally.	For Australians, the idea of 'flat white' coffee is foreign. A short black is 'espresso', cappuccino comes heaped high with cream (not froth), and tea is served without milk.	For Australians, the idea of 'flat white' coffee is foreign. 'Short black' is espresso, cappuccino has cream (no froth) and tea is served without milk.
Hindi: सेट में एक-एक सर्विस दोनों पुरुषों के पास रहने के बाद मरे टाई ब्रेकर में पहला सेट हार गया. = English: Murray lost the first set in a tie break after both men held each and every serve in the set.	Be firm in turning down men, and don't be afraid to stand your ground (cultural differences or not, it doesn't make it ok!).	Men should be firmly and unwaveringly denied and their point should be stoutly contested (whether cultural differences exist or not).
Hindi: एक ब्रिटिश क्रूज़र को छोड़कर, सभी जहाज़ डूब गए. करीब 200 अमेरिकी और जर्मन लोगों की मौत हो गई. = English: All the ships were sunk, except for one British cruiser. Nearly 200 American and German lives were lost.	Eventually, after thousands or even millions of years, the two populations will look so different that they can't be called the same species.	Eventually, thousands or millions of years later, both populations will be so different that they will not be considered the same species.
Hindi: अंतिम स्कोर एक अंक की जीत थी, 21 और 20, ऑल ब्लैक्स का 15 गेम लगातार जीतने का सिलसिला समाप्त हुआ । = English: The final score was a one-point victory, 21 to 20, ending the All Blacks' 15 game winning streak.	Germany was a common enemy in World War 2, leading to cooperation between the USSR and USA. With the end of the war the clashes of system, process and culture led to the countries falling out.	Under the leadership of the USSR and the USA, Germany was a common enemy in the Second World War. As the war ended, the system, process and culture clashes were causing the countries to break apart.
Hindi: उच्च मध्य युग आरंभिक मध्य युग से पहले हुआ था और उसके बाद आधुनिक मध्य युग आया जिसका समापन 1500 के आसपास माना जाता है। = English: The High Middle Ages were preceded by the Early Middle Ages and followed by the Late Middle Ages, which by convention ends around 1500.	The Great Pyramid at Giza is the only one of the seven wonders that is still standing today.	The Great Pyramid of Giza is one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World that still stands today.
Hindi: पहले उसे ग्रेट यारमोथ के जेम्स पैगट अस्पताल में भर्ती किया गया था. = English: He was initially hospitalised in the James Paget Hospital in Great Yarmouth.	If an iron isn't available, or if you don't fancy wearing ironed socks, then you can try using a hairdryer, if available.	If you don't want to wear pressurised socks, or if you don't have any, you can consider using a hairdryer instead.
Hindi: कुछ अणुओं में अस्थिर केंद्रक होता है, जिसका मतलब यह है कि उनमें थोड़े या बिना किसी झटके से टूटने की प्रवृत्ति होती है, = English: Some atoms have unstable nuclei which means that they tend to break apart with little or no nudging.	It states that the most effective place for the main subject is at the intersection of lines dividing the image into thirds vertically and horizontally (see example).	This tells us that the most effective place for the main subject is where the lines that divide the image into a vertical and horizontal are cut (see example).
Hindi: बर्फ गिरने या वाहन की खिड़कियों पर बर्फ के संघनन से भी दृश्यता कम हो सकती है। = English: Visibility may also be restricted by falling or blowing snow or by condensation or ice on vehicle windows.	Subcultures bring together like-minded individuals who feel neglected by societal standards and allow them to develop a sense of identity.	Subcultures bring together people with similar ideas who feel themselves to be socially disadvantaged and allow them to develop a sense of identity.
Hindi: यह समुद्र के नीचे पतला और ऊँचे क्षेत्रों के नीचे मोटा होता है। = English: It is thinner under the maria and thicker under the highlands.	The feathers' structure suggests that they were not used in flight but rather for temperature regulation or display. The researchers suggested that, even though this is the tail of a young dinosaur, the sample shows adult plumage and not a chick's down.	The structure of the feathers suggests that they were not used for flight, but for temperature regulation or display. Researchers suggested that, even though it is a young dino's tail, the sample shows the adult scapula, not the lower part of the juvenile.
Hindi: बर्फ गिरने या वाहन की खिड़कियों पर बर्फ के संघनन से भी दृश्यता कम हो सकती है। = English: Visibility may also be restricted by falling or blowing snow or by condensation or ice on vehicle windows.	The outbreak has prompted the Indian government to undertake such measures as deployment of pig catchers in seriously affected areas, distributing thousands of mosquito curtains and spraying pesticides.	The outbreak has forced the Indian government to deploy thousands of pig catchers, distribute thousands of mosquito nets and spray insecticides in affected areas.
Hindi: अंततः, हजारों या लाखों साल बाद, दोनों आबादियाँ इतनी अलग दिखाई देंगी कि उन्हें एक ही प्रजाति नहीं कहा जा सकेगा. = English: Eventually, after thousands or even millions of years, the two populations will look so different that they can't be called the same species.	Singer Sanju Sharma started the evening, followed by Jai Shankar Choudhary. esented the chhappan bhog bhajan as well. Singer, Raju Khandelwal was accompanying him.	Singer Sanju Sharma started the evening with a song, followed by Jai Shankar Chaudhary who sang the song Chapan Bhand Bhajan, singer Raju Khandelwal accompanied him.
Hindi: मोंटेवीडियो सबट्रॉपिक्स में है; गर्मियों के महीनों में, + 30° C से अधिक तापमान रहना आम बात है. = English: Montevideo is in the subtropics; in the summer months, temperatures above +30°C are common.	The same month saw another airliner overrun a runway at Mashhad and strike a wall, killing seventeen.	In the same month another plane overshot a runway at Mashhad and crashed into a wall, killing seventeen.
Hindi: ज़्यादातर मौतें पानी की धारा के विरुद्ध तैरने से होने वाली थकान की वजह से होती हैं, हो सकता है कि यह नामुमकिन भी हो. = English: Most deaths happen as result of fatigue trying to swim back against the current, which may be impossible.	Edgar Veguilla received arm and jaw wounds while Kristoffer Schneider was left requiring reconstructive surgery for his face.	Adger Veluwila's hands and jaw were badly injured, while Christopher Schnieder needed facial reconstruction surgery.
Hindi: हालांकि यह अक्सर केवल एक गलत रूढ़िवादी धारणा होती है, पेरिस में घुलने-मिलने का सबसे अच्छा तरीका अभी भी अपना सबसे अच्छा व्यवहार करना है, किसी ऐसे व्यक्ति की तरह अभिनय करना जो “बिएन एलेव” (अच्छी तरह से पला-बढ़ा) हो। यह घुलने-मिलने को काफी आसान बना देगा। = English: While this is often only an inaccurate stereotype, the best way to get along in Paris still is to be on your best behavior, acting like someone who is "bien élevé" (well brought up). It will make getting about considerably easier.	Saltwater Crocodiles do not actively live in the ocean, their primary habitat is in river estuaries north from Rockhampton.	Saltwater crocodiles are not usually found in the sea. They are often seen at the mouth of the river at Rockampton North.
Hindi: द सिंपसन के पहले साइमन ने कई शोज़ के कई पोज़िशन्स में काम किया था. = English: Before The Simpsons Simon had worked on several shows in various positions.	Her other race, the Giant Slalom, saw her finish in tenth in the women's sitting group with a combined run time of 4:41.30, 2:11.60 minutes slower than first place finisher Austrian Claudia Loesch and 1:09.02 minutes slower than the ninth place finisher Gyöngyi Dani of Hungary.	Her second race, the giant slalom, finished in fourth place in the women's group with a combined time of 4: 41.30, 2: 11.60 minutes behind the first-place finisher, Austrian Claudia Loeser, and 1: 09.02 minutes behind the Hungarian ninth-place finisher, Gyorgy Danyi, in tenth place.
Hindi: रूमानियत में सांस्कृतिक नियतिवाद का बड़ा तत्व था, जो गोएथे, फिच्ते और श्लेगल जैसे लेखकों से लिया गया. = English: Romanticism had a large element of cultural determinism, drawn from writers such as Goethe, Fichte, and Schlegel.	The best indication of internal poisoning may be the presence of an open container of medication or toxic household chemicals.	The best symptom of internal poisoning is the presence of an open bottle of medicine or toxic household chemicals.
Hindi: इन सिद्धांतों से संकेत मिलता है कि लोगों की कुछ ऐसी ज़रूरतें और/या इच्छाएँ थीं जो उनके वयस्क होते-होते उनके भीतर निहित हो गयी. = English: These theories suggest that people have certain needs and/or desires which have been internalized as they mature to adulthood.	The modern city of Casablanca was founded by Berber fishermen in the 10th century BCE, and was used by the Phoenicians, Romans, and the Merenids as a strategic port called Anfa.	The modern city of Kasaba was founded by the Barbarian fishermen in the 10th century BC, and was used as a strategic port by the Phonesians, Romans and Myrneds.
Hindi: इसने हमें ट्रेन, कार और इसी प्रकार के कई अन्य परिवहन के साधन दिए हैंं। = English: It has brought us the train, the car, and many other transportation devices.	As a result, the performers smoke cannabis joints on stage, and the theatre itself is encouraging the audience to join in.	As a result, the artists on the stage smoke ganja-filled cigarettes and the theatre itself encourages the audience to join them.
Hindi: इस हफ्ते की शुरुआत में, एक पुलिस हेलीकॉप्टर दुर्घटना में तीन लोगों की मौत हो गई और तीन और घायल हो गए. = English: Earlier this week, a police helicopter crash killed three people and wounded three more.	Angel (2006), explains the Continuum approach as a method being used to help organizations reach a higher level of performance.	Angel (2006) explained the method used to help organizations reach a higher level of performance as the Continum Approach.
Hindi: यह बीमारी सूअरों के कारण होती है, जो बाद में मच्छरों के माध्यम से मनुष्यों में आती है। = English: The disease is carried by pigs, which then migrates to humans through mosquitos.	Its status declined during the twelfth century mainly due to the fact that Crusaders had returned bearing gifts such as silks and spices that were valued more than what Byzantine markets offered.	The situation declined during the twelfth century mainly because the religious warriors brought silk and spices, which were more valuable than the offerings in the Byzantine markets.
Hindi: अगस्त में ऐम्स स्ट्रॉ पोल को जीतने वाली बेकमन ने अपना कैंपेन खत्म करने का फ़ैसला लिया. = English: Bachmann, who won the Ames Straw Poll in August, decided to end her campaign.	This is common practice elsewhere in the UK but Scottish justice works differently and courts have viewed publication of photos as potentially prejudicial.	This is common in Britain, but Scottish justice works differently and the courts have seen the publication of the pictures as potentially damaging.
Hindi: यह वह जगह है जहाँ ब्रिटिश उपनिवेशवादियों ने अपना बनाया और इसलिए अगर आप इस जगह के औपनिवेशिक अतीत के सबूतों को ढूँढ रहे हैं, तो यह एक अच्छी जगह है. = English: This is the place the British colonisers took as their own and so if you are looking for evidence of the territory's colonial past, this is a good place to start.	The moisture on your hands will react with the outer layers, which will feel funny and form a sort of shell.	Your hands will be moistening the outer layers, which will feel strange and will create a kind of coating.
Hindi: जैसे ही आप धारा से निकल आते हैं, पीछे की ओर तैरने में कोई खास मुश्किल नहीं होती है. = English: As soon as you get out of the current, swimming back is no more difficult than normally.	While no one knows for certain who wrote it, it is known that early in its life, the large parchment document (it measures 29¾ inches by 24½ inches) was rolled up for storage.	While no one knows who wrote it, a large leather document (measuring 24½ inches by 29¾) was collected for the purpose of collection.
Hindi: इसके साथ ही जर्मन नौसेना मुख्य रूप से यू-बोट का इस्तेमाल करते हुए इस ट्रैफिक को रोकने की कोशिश कर रही थी। = English: At the same time, the German navy, using mainly U-boats, was trying to stop this traffic.	Some cruises feature Berlin, Germany in the brochures. As you can see from the map above Berlin is no where near the sea and a visit to the city is not included in the price of the cruise.	Some brochures include Berlin, Germany. As you can see on the map above, Berlin is not near the sea and the cruise price does not include a visit to the city.
Hindi: पपड़ी पतली होने के कारण आस-पास पर कई मारिया होंगी. लावा के लिए सतह पर बढ़ना आसान था. = English: There may be more maria on the near side because the crust is thinner. It was easier for lava to rise up to the surface.	This can be easily done by using a relatively quiet alarm clock to bring you to consciousness without fully waking you.	You can easily wake someone up by using a relatively quiet alarm clock to get them out of a deep sleep.
Hindi: जबकी हमारे माल के अस्सी प्रतिशत पर केंद्रीय अमेरिकन देशों द्वारा कर लगाया गया। फिर भी हम आपका इलाज करते हैं। = English: Yet eighty percent of our goods were taxed through tariffs in Central American countries. we treat you.	The ministry responded by calling Apple's postponement of the report "truly regrettable."	The ministry responded to Apple's report by saying that it was "undoubtedly deserved".
Hindi: प्रथम विश्व युद्ध के दौरान युद्ध की भयानकता और अत्याचारों को देखने के बाद, राष्ट्र भविष्य में ऐसी स्थिति से बचने के लिए कामना करता है । = English: After seeing the horrors and atrocities of war during World War I, nations desired to avoid such a situation again in the future.	Adekoya has since been in Edinburgh Sheriff Court charged with murdering her son.	Since then, Adelawa has been in custody in Edinburgh Sheriff Court on the charge of murdering her son.
Hindi: आमतौर पर ऐसा कहा जाता है कि सीधी उड़ानों में ए से बी तक बिज़नेस या फ़र्स्ट क्लास सीटों पर किसी भी सूरत में डिस्काउंट नहीं दिया जाता है. = English: Generally speaking, there is no point in even looking for discounts for business or first-class seats on direct flights from A to B.	Any amendments or requests though should be coursed through the travel agent first and not directly with the hotel.	Any changes or requests should be made through the travel agent rather than directly with the hotel.
Hindi: साउथ शेटलैंड, जिसकी खोज 1819 में हुई थी, पर कई देशों ने दावा किया है और वहाँ सबसे ज़्यादा बेस बनाए गए हैं, जिनमें से 2020 में सोलह बेस सक्रिय हैं. = English: South Shetland Islands, discovered in 1819, are claimed by several nations and have the most bases, with sixteen active in 2020.	Also blogging "forces students to become more savvy about the world around them." The need to feed the interest of the audience inspires students to be clever and interesting (Toto, 2004).	Blogging “compels students to know more about their surroundings.” The need to cater to the interests of the audience motivates students to be agile and interesting. (Toto, 2004).
Hindi: हांगकांग के सर्वश्रेष्ठ नज़ारे प्राप्त करने के लिए, द्वीप को छोड़े और कॉव्लून वॉटरफ्रंट के विपरीत चले जाये | = English: To get the best views of Hong Kong, leave the island and head for the Kowloon waterfront opposite.	According to Mick O'Flynn, the Acting Director Park Conservation and Heritage with the NPWS, the four shooters selected for the first shooting operation received comprehensive safety and training instruction.	NPWS’s acting director of conservation and heritage, Mike Oflin, says the first four shooters selected for the shooting operation have been given extensive safety and training instructions.
Hindi: शत्रुता फैलाने के तुरंत बाद, ब्रिटेन ने जर्मनी की समुद्री घेराबंदी शुरू कर दी थी. = English: Soon after the outbreak of hostilities, Britain initiated a naval blockade of Germany.	On the outlying islands credit cards will probably not be accepted, although British and United States currency may be taken; check with the owners in advance to determine what is an acceptable payment method.	Credit cards are unlikely to be accepted on the Outer Islands, although British and US currency is acceptable; to determine what acceptable payment methods are, ask the owners in advance.
Hindi: बफ़ेलो-पिट्सबर्ग हाइवे पर पॉइंट मैरियन और फ़ेयरमोंट के बीच का हिस्सा गाड़ी चलाने की सबसे चुनौती भरी स्थितियाँ पैदा करता है, जहाँ रास्ता अक्सर सुनसान जंगल के बीच से होकर गुज़रता है. = English: The stretch between Point Marion and Fairmont presents the most challenging driving conditions on the Buffalo-Pittsburgh Highway, passing frequently through isolated backwoods terrain.	An example is visiting, photographing, and learning about organgatuangs in Borneo.	Going to Borneo, photographing orangutans, and learning about them is an example.
Hindi: आईपॉड ओवरहीटिंग में खराबी के लगभग 60 मामले सामने आए हैं, जिससे कुल छह बार आग लगी और चार लोग मामूली रूप से जल गए। = English: Around 60 cases of malfunctioning iPods overheating have been reported, causing a total of six fires and leaving four people with minor burns.	As knowledge of Greek declined, the West found itself cut off from its Greek philosophical and scientific roots.	As Greek knowledge declined, the West found itself cut off from its Greek philosophical and scientific roots.
Hindi: बाहरी द्वीपों पर क्रेडिट कार्ड शायद स्वीकार नहीं किए जाएँगे, हालाँकि ब्रिटिश और संयुक्त राज्य की मुद्रा स्वीकार्य होगी; यह निर्धारित करने के लिए कि स्वीकार्य भुगतान विधि क्या है, मालिकों से पहले ही पूछ लें। = English: On the outlying islands credit cards will probably not be accepted, although British and United States currency may be taken; check with the owners in advance to determine what is an acceptable payment method.	Feral children may have experienced severe child abuse or trauma before being abandoned or running away.	It is possible that the children in care have experienced serious child abuse or trauma before being released or run away.
Hindi: यह दक्षिण अफ़्रीका के मुख्य आकर्षणों में से एक है और इसे फ़्लैगशिप ऑफ़ साउथ अफ़्रीकन नेशनल पार्क्स (एसएएनपार्क्स) के रूप में माना गया है. = English: It is one of the main attractions of South Africa and it is considered the flagship of South African National Parks (SANParks).	The satellite was sent into space by a rocket. Scientists use telescopes in space because the Earth’s atmosphere distorts some of our light and view.	The satellite was sent into space by a rocket. Scientists use telescopes in space because the Earth's atmosphere distorts some of our light and visual.
Hindi: वर्चुअल टीमों को भी परंपरागत टीमों की तरह ही उत्कृष्टता के समान मानकों पर रखा जाता है, लेकिन उनमें बारीक अंतर होते हैं. = English: Virtual teams are held to the same standards of excellence as conventional teams, but there are subtle differences.	Its renown for being an epicenter of luxury began in about 400 A.D. and lasted up until about 1100 A.D.	It was known as a luxury subcenter from about 400 A.D. to 1100 A.D.
Hindi: 1994 में, इस संघर्ष की वजह से पूर्वी माल्डोवा में ट्रांसनिस्ट्रिया गणराज्य के निर्माण घोषणा हुई, जिसकी अपनी सरकार और मुद्रा है लेकिन इसे संयुक्त राष्ट्र के किसी भी सदस्य देश ने मान्यता नहीं दी. = English: In 1994, this conflict led to the creation of the self-proclaimed Transnistria Republic in eastern Moldova, which has its own government and currency but is not recognised by any UN member country.	Authorities speculate that this indicates that containers holding uranium fuel at the site may have ruptured and are leaking.	Officials estimate that the containers holding the uranium fuel rods have broken and are leaking.
Hindi: चैंबर्स ने “व्यापक मौत, विनाश और पृथ्वी के लाखों निवासी पर आतंक के लिए भगवान पर मुकदमा चलाया था।” = English: Chambers had sued God for "widespread death, destruction and terrorization of millions upon millions of the Earth's inhabitants."	Since the foundation of Asunción in 1537, Paraguay has managed to keep a lot of its indigenous character and identity.	Since its founding in 1537, Paraguay has successfully maintained its indigenous character and identity.
Hindi: समय के साथ, जैसे-जैसे नई आबादी नए माहौल में ढलती जाती है, वह भी दूसरी आबादी की तरह अनदेखी करना शुरू कर देती है. = English: Over time, as the new population begins to adapt to their new environment, they start to look less and less like the other population.	The fatalities were Nicholas Alden, 25, and Zachary Cuddeback, 21. Cuddeback had been the driver.	Of the dead, 25-year-old Nicholas Eldon and 21-year-old Zechariah Kedback were included. Kedback was the driver.
Hindi: 1000 पाउंड से ज़्यादा वज़नी और करीब 17,500 मील प्रति घंटा की रफ़्तार से उड़ रहे दोनों सैटेलाइट धरती से 491 मील की ऊँचाई पर टकरा गए. = English: The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	For example, each year students from Bennet School in North Carolina design a website about their trip to the State Capital, each year the website gets remodeled, but old versions are kept online to serve as a scrapbook.	For example, thousands of students at the Benton School in North Carolina each year design a website about their state capital trip. The website is redesigned each year, but some old versions are kept online as scrapbooks.
Hindi: तिब्बती बौद्ध धर्म बुद्ध की शिक्षाओं पर आधारित है, लेकिन प्रेम के महायान मार्ग और भारतीय योग से बहुत सारी तकनीकों द्वारा इसे बढ़ाया गया. = English: The Tibetan Buddhism is based on the teachings of Buddha, but were extended by the mahayana path of love and by a lot of techniques from Indian Yoga.	They did two experiments marking either the DNA in the phage with a radioactive phosphorus or the protein of the phage with radioactive sulfur.	They performed two experiments: one in which they marked the DNA with radioactive phosphorus and the other in which they marked the protein with radioactive sulfur.
Hindi: मौजूदा 25 डनलप ब्रॉडसाइड अब तक बची हुई सबसे पुरानी कॉपी के डॉक्यूमेंट हैं. हाथ से लिखी गई मूल कॉपी सहेजी नहीं जा सकी है. = English: The 25 Dunlap broadsides still known to exist are the oldest surviving copies of the document. The original handwritten copy has not survived.	Pronunciation is relatively easy in Italian since most words are pronounced exactly how they are written	The pronunciation of Italian is relatively easy because most words are pronounced the same way they are written.
Hindi: ब्लॉग से छात्र लेखन में सुधार करने में भी मदद मिल सकती है. जहां छात्र अपने ब्लॉग अनुभव की शुरुआत अक्सर बेतरतीब व्याकरण और वर्तनी के साथ करते हैं, वहीं दर्शकों की मौजूदगी से इसमें आम तौर पर बदलाव आता है. = English: Blogs can also help improve student writing. While students often begin their blog experience with sloppy grammar and spelling, the presence of an audience generally changes that.	Entertainment news website TMZ understands the photographer stopped his vehicle on the other side of Sepulveda Boulevard and attempted to take pictures of the police stop before crossing the road and continuing, prompting the California Highway Patrol police officer conducting the traffic stop to order him back across, twice.	Entertainment news website TMZ believes the photographer stopped his vehicle on the side of the Sepulveda Boulevard and tried to take pictures of the police stop before crossing the street and continuing. California Highway Patrol officers conducted a traffic stop and ordered him to stop twice.
Hindi: बेबीलोन के निवासियों ने अपने प्रत्येक देवता का एक प्राथमिक मंदिर बनाया जिसे देवता का घर माना जाता था. = English: The Babylonians built each of their gods a primary temple that was considered the home of the god.	The patient had been to Nigeria, where some cases of the Ebola virus have occurred.	The patient had gone to Nigeria, where some cases of Ebola virus had been reported.
Hindi: जब इंफ्रारेड स्पेक्ट्रोस्कोपी (ऍफ़टीआईआर) से इन क्रिस्टलों की संरचना की तुलना की गई, तो वे प्रभावित पालतू जानवरों के मूत्र में पाए क्रिस्टल से मेल खाते हैं। = English: The composition of these crystals matches those found in the urine of affected pets when compared by infrared spectroscopy (FTIR).	No immediate reports of damage have been received by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) and its National Earthquake Information Center.	The United States Geological Survey (USGS) and its National Earthquake Information Center have not received any immediate reports of damage.
Hindi: उन्होंने कहा “कि अब हमारे पास 4 महीने उम्र वाले चूहे हैं जिन्हें मधुमेह नहीं है जो मधुमेह के रोगी थे। ” = English: "We now have 4-month-old mice that are non-diabetic that used to be diabetic," he added.	The major religion in Moldova is Orthodox Christian.	The main religion in Moldova is Orthodox Christianity.
Hindi: बाली में इस एजेंडे के अन्य विषयों में दुनिया के बचे हुए जंगलों को बचाने, और ऐसी तकनीकों का आदान प्रदान करना का विषय शामिल है जिससे कि विकासशील देशों को कम प्रदूषणकारी तरीकों से आगे बढ़ने में मदद मिले। = English: Other subjects on the agenda in Bali include saving the world's remaining forests, and sharing technologies to help developing nations grow in less-polluting ways.	Over four million people went to Rome to attend the funeral.	More than four million people went to Rome for the funeral.
Hindi: असल में फील्ड ट्रिप साझा करना यात्रा पर विचार करने और भविष्य की कक्षाओं के साथ अनुभव करने का एक शानदार तरीका है. = English: Sharing a field trip virtually is also a great way to reflect a on a trip and share experiences with future classes.	However, these plans were rendered obsolete nearly overnight, when over 800,000 soldiers from the Soviet's Union Red Army entered and created the Belarussian and Ukrainian fronts after invading the eastern regions of Poland in violation of the Riga Peace Treaty, the Soviet-Polish Non-Aggression Pact, and other international treaties, both bilateral and multilateral.	Although these plans were made almost overnight, when the Soviet Union's Red Army of 800,000 soldiers invaded Poland's eastern territories after the Soviet Union had entered the Polish-Belarusian and Ukrainian fronts. They violated the Riga Peace Treaty, the Soviet-Polish Non-Aggression Pact and other international bilateral and multilateral treaties.
Hindi: साई के साथ-साथ सभी संज्ञा शब्द हमेशा अंग्रेज़ी के बड़े अक्षर से ही शुरू होते हैं, भले ही वे वाक्य के बीच में ही क्यों न हों. = English: All nouns, alongside the word Sie for you, always begin with a capital letter, even in the middle of a sentence.	Schneider testified via videolink from a USAF base in his homeland.	Schnieder testified via video link from a USAF base in his native land.
Hindi: फिलीपींस की विजय में अमेरिकी साम्राज्यवाद के युद्ध व्यय का भुगतान फिलिपिनो के लोगों ने खुद किया था. = English: The war expenditures of U.S. imperialism in the conquest of the Philippines were paid for by the Filipino people themselves.	Congress lacked any power to impose taxes, and, because there was no national executive or judiciary, it relied on state authorities, who were often uncooperative, to enforce all its acts.	Congress had no right to tax, because there was no national executive or judiciary. It depended on state officials, who often did not cooperate in implementing all their actions.
Hindi: इटैलियन भी रोज़ाना इस्तेमाल होने वाली भाषा है जिसे राज्य में काम करने वाले अधिकांश लोग उपयोग में लाते हैं, जबकि लेटिन का धार्मिक रस्मों में इस्तेमाल किया जाता है. = English: Italian is also the everyday language used by most of those who work in the state while Latin is often used in religious ceremonies.	The Olympic gold medalist was due to swim in the 100m and 200m freestyle and in three relays at the Commonwealth Games, but due to his complaints his fitness has been in doubt.	Olympic gold medalist was supposed to swim in the 100 and 200 meter freestyle and three relay events in the Commonwealth Games, but his health has been in doubt due to his complaints.
Hindi: वैज्ञानिक यह निष्कर्ष निकालने में सक्षम थे कि काला पदार्थ अन्य काले पदार्थ को उसी तरह प्रभावित करता है जिस तरह से आम पदार्थ करता है। = English: The scientists were able to conclude that the dark matter affect other dark matter in the same way regular matter does.	The rock band was due to tour the United States and Canada until September 16.	The rock band was supposed to travel to the United States and Canada by September 16.
Hindi: श्नाइडर ने अपनी मातृभूमि में एक USAF बेस से वीडियो लिंक के माध्यम से गवाही दी. = English: Schneider testified via videolink from a USAF base in his homeland.	We call this process speciation, which just means the formation of new species. Speciation is an unavoidable consequence and a very important part of evolution.	We call this process "speciation", which means the formation of new species. Speciation is a good step and an important part of evolution.
Hindi: यदि आप केवल शिपबोर्ड भ्रमण का उपयोग करके किनारे तक जाते हैं तो आपको एक अलग वीज़ा की आवश्यकता नहीं होगी (2009 तक). = English: If you only go ashore using shipboard excursions you will not need a separate visa (as of 2009).	In the churchyard, there are interesting marble sculptures of doves over some tombs.	In the churchyard, some of the graves have interesting carved marble sculptures of doves.
Hindi: सभी दक्षिण अफ्रीकी राष्ट्रीय उद्यानों के साथ ही पार्क में दैनिक संरक्षण और प्रवेश के लिए शुल्क लगता हैं। = English: As with all South African National Parks, there are daily conservation and entry fees for the park.	Others are alleged to have been brought up by animals; some are said to have lived in the wild on their own.	Others were allegedly brought in by people who had been paid to do so; some were said to have been living in the forest themselves.
Hindi: यह शहर, अफ़्रीका के कुछ सबसे सस्ते पहाड़ी गोरिल्ला ट्रेकिंग के साथ ही नायरागोंगो ज्वालामुखी की चढ़ाई करने का बेस भी है. = English: The city is also the base to climb the Nyiragongo volcano along with some of the cheapest Mountain Gorilla tracking in Africa.	Israel demands an ongoing military presence in the valley for ten years once an agreement is signed while the PA agrees to leave such presence only for five years.	Israel demands that the current military status be maintained for the next ten years after the signing of the agreement, while PA agrees to maintain the current military status for only five years.
Hindi: केमिली सेंट-सेंस द्वारा, फ्रेंच ऑपेरा में प्रस्तुत कहानी, एक कलाकार की है “जिसका जीवन ड्रग्स के लिए प्यार और जापान से दर्शाया जाता है।” = English: The story presented in the French opera, by Camille Saint-Saens, is of an artist "whose life is dictated by a love for drugs and Japan."	Goma is a tourist city of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the extreme east near Rwanda.	Goma, a tourism city in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, is located just to the east of Rwanda.
Hindi: प्राकृतिक वातावरण में पौधे सबसे अच्छे दिखते हैं, इसलिए “सिर्फ एक” नमूने को भी हटाने के प्रलोभन को रोकें. = English: Plants look their best when in a natural environment, so resist the temptation to remove even "just one" specimen.	Lakkha Singh presented the chhappan bhog bhajan as well. Singer, Raju Khandelwal was accompanying him.	Lakhua Singh presented a bhajan on the theme of the sixty dishes. Singer Raju Khandelwal was with him.
Hindi: शोधकर्ताओं ने मेलामाइन और सियानुरिक एसिड को मिलाने से बिल्ली के मूत्र में क्रिस्टल्स को बनते देखा. = English: The researchers observed crystals formed in cat urine by the addition of melamine and cyanuric acid.	There, they found the body of Saroja Balasubramanian, 53, covered with blood-stained blankets.	There, they found the body of 53-year-old Saroj Balasubramanian, covered in blood-soaked blankets.
Hindi: किसी समझौते पर हस्ताक्षर होने के बाद इज़राइल, वर्तमान सैन्य स्थिति को अगले दस सालों तक बनाए रखने की मांग करता है, जबकि पीए वर्तमान सैन्य स्थिति को केवल पांच साल तक जारी रखने के लिए सहमत है। = English: Israel demands an ongoing military presence in the valley for ten years once an agreement is signed while the PA agrees to leave such presence only for five years.	Police said they suspect an alleged Daesh (ISIL) militant of responsibility for the attack.	Police said they suspected the alleged Daesh (ISIS) militants responsible for the attack.
Hindi: सफलता के मामले में, जर्मनी की राष्ट्रीय फुटबॉल टीम के बाद इटली की राष्ट्रीय फुटबॉल टीम आती है, ये फीफा वर्ल्ड कप 2006 के विजेता थे. = English: Italy's national football, along with German national football team is the second most successful team in the world and were the FIFA World Cup champions in 2006.	Traffic Flow is the study of the movement of individual drivers and vehicles between two points and the interactions they make with one another.	Traffic flow is the study of individual drivers and vehicles activity and interaction between them.
Hindi: राष्ट्रीय तूफ़ान केंद्र (एनएचसी) का कहना है कि इस समय जैरी का ज़मीन को कोई खतरा नहीं है। = English: The National Hurricane Center (NHC) says that at this point Jerry poses no threat to land.	Most deaths happen as result of fatigue trying to swim back against the current, which may be impossible.	Most deaths are caused by exhaustion from swimming against the current, which may be impossible.
Hindi: शेरों का समूह काफी हद तक भेड़ियों या कुत्तों के झुंड की तरह काम करता है, जो जानवर व्यवहार में आश्चर्यजनक रूप से शेरों (लेकिन अन्य बड़ी बिल्लियों) के समान होते हैं, और अपने शिकार के लिए बहुत घातक भी होते हैं। = English: Lion prides act much like packs of wolves or dogs, animals surprisingly similar to lions (but not other big cats) in behavior, and also very deadly to their prey.	Siminoff said sales boosted after his 2013 appearance in a Shark Tank episode where the show panel declined funding the startup.	Cimon said that after appearing on Shark Tank in 2013, sales increased, where the show panel refused to invest in the startup.
Hindi: हाथी और जिराफ़ जैसे कुछ जानवर, कारों के बहुत करीब चले आते हैं और मानक उपकरण से अच्छा नज़ारा दिखाई देगा. = English: Some animals, such as elephants and giraffes, tend to approach closely to cars and standard equipment will allow good viewing.	Europe is a continent that is relatively small but with many independent countries. Under normal circumstances, travelling through multiple countries would mean having to go through visa applications and passport control multiple times.	Europe is a relatively small continent but it contains many independent countries. In normal circumstances, traveling to many countries means applying for visas and going through passport control procedures several times.
Hindi: रात के समय 150 और 200 के बीच प्रतियों बनती है , जिन्हे अब “डनलप ब्रॉडसाइड्स” के रूप में जाना जाता है। = English: Through the night between 150 and 200 copies were made, now known as "Dunlap broadsides".	Prior to the arrival of troops, Haiti had not encountered problems related to the disease since the 1800s.	Haiti had never before faced problems with diseases before the arrival of the troops, in the 1800s.
Hindi: घबराए हुए राजा लुईस XVI, रानी मैरी एंटोनेट और उनके दो बच्चे (11 साल की मैरी थैरेस और चार साल का लुईस चार्ल्स) और राजा की बहन मैडम एलिजावेथ को 6 अक्टूबर 1789 को बाज़ार में मौजूद महिलाओं की भीड़ ने वर्साय से वापस पेरिस जाने के लिए मजबूर किया था. = English: The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	Goats seem to have been first domesticated roughly 10,000 years ago in the Zagros Mountains of Iran.	It is believed that the Zagros Mountains of Iran were the birthplace of goat farming 10,000 years ago.
Hindi: हांगकांग द्वीप के शहरी विकास का ज्यादातर हिस्सा पुनः निर्मित भूमि पर उत्तरी तट के साथ अधिक रूप से भरा हुआ है। = English: The great majority of Hong Kong Island's urban development is densely packed on reclaimed land along the northern shore.	This became common practice, but the iron caused more wear on the wooden wheels of the wagons.	It was common, but iron vehicles ran on wooden wheels with more friction.
Hindi: हांगकांग के सर्वश्रेष्ठ नज़ारे प्राप्त करने के लिए, द्वीप को छोड़े और कॉव्लून वॉटरफ्रंट के विपरीत चले जाये | = English: To get the best views of Hong Kong, leave the island and head for the Kowloon waterfront opposite.	He was reportedly aged in his 20s. In a statement, Bieber said "[w]hile I was not present nor directly involved with this tragic accident, my thoughts and prayers are with the family of the victim."	It is said that he was 20 years old when he died. In a statement, Bieber said, “Although I was not there and did not directly involve myself in this tragic accident, my thoughts and prayers are with the victim’s family.”
Hindi: उत्तरी भारत और पाकिस्तान के अंतर्देशीय क्षेत्रों में आमतौर पर दही का उपयोग करी में किया जाता है; दक्षिणी भारत में और उपमहाद्वीप के कुछ अन्य तटीय क्षेत्रों में आमतौर पर नारियल के दूध का उपयोग किया जाता है। = English: In inland regions of Northern India and Pakistan, yogurt is commonly used in curries; in Southern India and some other coastal regions of the subcontinent, coconut milk is commonly used.	The effect the team was looking for would be caused by tidal forces between the galaxy's dark matter and the Milky Way's dark matter.	The team was looking for an effect caused by the gravitational forces between the dark matter in the Milky Way and the dark matter in the Andromeda galaxy.
Hindi: कनान देश में बड़े जंगलो के न होने के चलते वहाँ लकड़ियाँ बहुत महंगी थी। = English: There were no large forests in the land of Canaan, so wood was extremely expensive.	Be careful not to allow fabric to become too hot (which can cause shrinkage, or in extreme cases, scorch).	Be careful not to make the clothes too hot (which can cause them to shrink, or too hot and they can burn).
Hindi: कई लोगों ने फरवरी की शुरुआत में कई हार्डवेयर और सॉफ़्टवेयर इस्तेमाल करके खोज की पुष्टि की है और मंगलवार को इसकी घोषणा की गई थी. = English: Several people verified the discovery using different hardware and software by the beginning of February and it was announced on Tuesday.	The find also grants insight into the evolution of feathers in birds.	This discovery provides complete information about the development of wings in birds.
Hindi: एडगर वेगुइला के हाथ और जबड़े जख्मि हो गये, जबकि क्रिस्टोफ़र श्नाइडर को चेहरे की पुनर्निर्माण सर्जरी की आवश्यकता थी। = English: Edgar Veguilla received arm and jaw wounds while Kristoffer Schneider was left requiring reconstructive surgery for his face.	The Kruger National Park (KNP) lies in the north-east of South Africa and runs along the border of Mozambique in the east, Zimbabwe in the north, and the southern border is the Crocodile River.	Kruger National Park (KNP) is situated in the north-eastern part of South Africa, bordering Mozambique to the east, Zambia to the north and the Crocodile River to the south.
Hindi: प्रकोप ने भारत सरकार को गंभीर रूप से प्रभावित क्षेत्रों में सुअर पकड़ने वालों की तैनाती, हज़ारों मच्छरदानी वितरित करने और कीटनाशकों के छिड़काव जैसे उपाय करने के लिए मजबूर कर दिया है. = English: The outbreak has prompted the Indian government to undertake such measures as deployment of pig catchers in seriously affected areas, distributing thousands of mosquito curtains and spraying pesticides.	Although Winfrey was tearful in her farewell, she made it clear to her fans she will be back.	Although Winspear's eyes were full of tears at the farewell, she made it clear that she would return.
Hindi: जापान की परमाणु एजेंसी के अनुसार, प्लांट में रेडियोधर्मी सीज़ियम और आयोडीन की पहचान की गई है. = English: According to Japan's nuclear agency, radioactive caesium and iodine has been identified at the plant.	The pH level is indicated by the amount of Hydrogen (the H in pH) ions in the tested chemical.	pH level is based on the presence of hydrogen (H) particles in pH.
Hindi: उस विशेष जहर के लिए विशेष प्राथमिक चिकित्सा निर्देशों के लिए लेबल को देखेंं। = English: Check the label for specific first aid instructions for that specific poison.	In just two weeks the Americans and Free French forces had liberated southern France and were turning towards Germany.	Americans and Free French forces liberated southern France in just two weeks and were advancing on Germany.
Hindi: NPWS के उद्यान संरक्षण और विरासत के कार्यवाहक निदेशक, मिक ओफ्लिन के अनुसार, शूटिंग ऑपरेशन के लिए चुने गए पहले चार निशानेबाजों को सुरक्षा और प्रशिक्षण से जुड़े व्यापक निर्देश मिले हैं. = English: According to Mick O'Flynn, the Acting Director Park Conservation and Heritage with the NPWS, the four shooters selected for the first shooting operation received comprehensive safety and training instruction.	This new environment has different resources and different competitors, so the new population will need different features or adaptations to be a strong competitor than what they had needed before.	This new place has different resources and competitors, so the new population will have to adopt different characteristics or changes to become a stronger competitor than before.
Hindi: कई बिश्केक निवासियों ने दक्षिण के प्रदर्शनकारियों को इस अराजकता के लिए दोषी ठहराया। = English: Several Bishkek residents blamed protesters from the south for the lawlessness.	Since 1966 the Sundarbans have been a wildlife sanctuary, and it is estimated that there are now 400 Royal Bengal tigers and about 30,000 spotted deer in the area.	The Sundarbans wildlife sanctuary was established in 1966 and an assessment says there are now about 400 Royal Bengal Tigers and about 30,000 spotted deer in the area.
Hindi: कुल 17,000 द्वीपों में से, इंडोनेशियाई भोजन एक व्यापक शब्द है, जो देश भर में पाए जाने वाले विभिन्न प्रकार के क्षेत्रीय व्यंजनों को अपने भीतर समाहित करता है। = English: With 17,000 islands to choose from, Indonesian food is an umbrella term covering a vast variety of regional cuisines found across the nation.	The main local beer is 'Number One', it is not a complex beer, but pleasant and refreshing. The other local beer is called "Manta".	The main local beer is “Number one”, which is not a complex beer, but rather gives you a refreshing feeling. Other local beers are called “Manta”.
Hindi: हालांकि तीन लोग घर के अन्दर थे फिर भी जब कार टकराई तब किसी को भी चोट नहीं आई। = English: Although three people were inside the house when the car impacted it, none of them were hurt.	If a rider is thrown from a horse but has a foot caught in the stirrup, they could be dragged if the horse runs away. To minimize this risk, a number of safety precautions can be taken.	If a rider is thrown from a horse but his foot gets caught in the stirrup, the rider can be pulled back by the horse. To reduce this risk, several safety measures can be taken.
Hindi: अधिकांश आधुनिक अनुसंधान दूरबीनों में अनुकूल वायुमंडलीय परिस्थितियों के साथ दूरदराज के क्षेत्रों में काम करने के लिए बहुत सुविधाएँ हैं. = English: Most modern research telescopes are enormous facilities in remote areas with favorable atmospheric conditions.	Wagonways were built in England as early as the 16th Century.	Waggons were built in England in the 16th century.
Hindi: श्रीमती किरचनर ने अर्जेंटीना थियेटर में राष्ट्रपति की दौड़ में शामिल होने की घोषणा की, उसी स्थान से उन्होंने ब्यूनस आयर्स प्रांत के प्रतिनिधिमंडल के सदस्य के रूप में सीनेट के लिए अपना 2005 का अभियान शुरू किया था। = English: Mrs. Kirchner announced her intention to run for president at the Argentine Theatre, the same location she used to start her 2005 campaign for the Senate as member of the Buenos Aires province delegation.	There are different ways of purifying water, some more effective against specific threats.	There are many ways to purify water, some of which are effective in reducing specific hazards.
Hindi: यह डिवाइस को हवा में मूव करके खिलाड़ियों को एक्शन और मूवमेंट कंट्रोल करने की अनुमति देगा. = English: This will allow players to control actions and movements in video games by moving the device through the air.	Around 60 cases of malfunctioning iPods overheating have been reported, causing a total of six fires and leaving four people with minor burns.	There have been about 60 cases of overheating in iPads, causing six fires and four people to be slightly burned.
Hindi: 1624 में, डच ईस्ट इंडिया कंपनी ने दक्षिण-पश्चिमी ताइवान में एक बेस की स्थापना की थी, जो आदिवासी अनाज उत्पादन के तरीको में परिवर्तन की शुरुआत कर रही थी और चीनी मजदूरों को अपने चावल और चीनी बागानों पर काम करने के लिए नियुक्त कर रही थी। = English: In 1624,Dutch East India Company establishes a base in southwestern Taiwan, initiating a transformation in aboriginal grain production practices and employing Chinese laborers to work on its rice and sugar plantations.	Vatican City uses Italian in its legislation and official communications.	Vatican City uses Italian in its legal and official communications.
Hindi: कुछ लोगों ये सोचते थे की कि वह सही था लेकिन बहुत से लोग इसके विपरीत मानते थे; की सौर मंडल सूर्य (और यहां तक कि अन्य सितारों) सहित पृथ्वी के चारों और चक्कर लगता था । = English: Some people thought he was right but many people believed the opposite; that the Solar System moved around the Earth, including the Sun (and even the other stars).	International sanctions have meant that new aircraft cannot be purchased.	International sanctions mean that new aircraft cannot be bought.
Hindi: न्यूरोबायोलॉजिकल डेटा संज्ञान की जाँच के लिए सैद्धांतिक दृष्टिकोण के लिए भौतिक प्रमाण देते है. इसलिए ये अनुसंधान के क्षेत्र को सीमित बनाते हैं और इसे कहीं ज़्यादा सटीक बनाते हैं. = English: Neurobiological data provide physical evidence for a theoretical approach to the investigation of cognition. Therefore it narrows the research area and makes it much more exact.	Neurobiological data provide physical evidence for a theoretical approach to the investigation of cognition. Therefore it narrows the research area and makes it much more exact.	Neurobiological data provide physical evidence for a theoretical approach to the investigation of cognition. Therefore it narrows the research area and makes it much more exact.
Hindi: माइकल शूमाकर ने अलोंसो के कुछ समय बाद ही अपनी रेस समाप्त कर दी थी कयोंकि रेस के दौरान कई संघर्षों में सस्पेंशन को क्षति पहुँची थी। = English: Michael Schumacher ended his race not long after Alonso, because of the suspension damage in the numerous battles during the race.	Montevideo is in the subtropics; in the summer months, temperatures above +30°C are common.	Montevideo is situated in the subtropics; + 30° C is common in the summer months.
Hindi: यह मुझे समझ में नहीं आया; यह निश्चित रूप से उचित नहीं था। = English: That didn't seem to make sense to me; it certainly wasn't fair.	After seeing the horrors and atrocities of war during World War I, nations desired to avoid such a situation again in the future.	After seeing the horrors and atrocities of the First World War, the nation prays for a future free of such situations.
Hindi: जिस समय घटनाएँ हुई उसके युग को सामान्य रूप से यूरोप के इतिहास में 11वीं, 12वीं और 13वीं सदी (AD 1000-1300) में यूरोपियन इतिहास के उच्च मध्य युग की अवधि के रूप में बताया जाता है. = English: The age where the events took place is commonly referred as the High Middle Ages the period of European history in the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries (AD 1000–1300).	Regional and seasonal severe weather phenomena include blizzards, snowstorms, ice storms, and dust storms.	Regional and seasonal severe weather events include blizzards, snowfall, blizzards, and dust storms.
Hindi: कुछ फ़ेस्टिवल में छोटे बच्चों के साथ आने वाले परिवारों के लिए कैंप लगाने के ख़ास इलाके होते हैं. = English: Some festivals have special camping areas for families with young children.	The fission bomb works on the principle that it takes energy to put together a nucleus with many protons and neutrons.	A fission bomb works on the principle that energy is required to hold together a nucleus with many protons and neutrons.
Hindi: प्रदर्शन चालू होने के पाँच मिनट में हवा शुरू हो जाती है, लगभग एक मिनट बाद, हवा 70 किमी/घंटा तक पहुँच रही है... फिर बारिश आती है, लेकिन इतनी तेज़ और इतनी बड़ी बूँदें कि यह आपकी त्वचा को सुई की तरह चुभती है, फिर आकाश से ओले गिरते हैं, लोग घबराते हैं, चिल्लाते हैं और अफरातफरी मच जाती है। = English: Five minutes into the display a wind starts rolling in, about a minute later, the wind is reaching 70km/h... then the rain comes, but so hard and so large that it slaps your skin like a needle, then hail fell from the sky, people panicking and screaming and running over each other.	The largest tournament of the year takes place in December at the polo fields in Las Cañitas.	The biggest tournament of the year is held in December at the Polo Grounds in Las Canitas.
Hindi: उनके शोध से पता चला कि अगर हार्मोन को प्रभाव में लाया जाए तो यह बच्चे के भ्रूण के फेफड़ों की परिपक्वता को गति देगा. = English: His research showed that if a hormone was administered it would speed up the baby's foetal lung maturation.	We agree with the USOC's statement that the interests of our athletes and clubs, and their sport, may be better served by moving forward with meaningful change within our organization, rather than decertification.	We agree with USOC's statement that our athletes and clubs and their sport, can move forward in meaningful change within our organization rather than in opposition to it.
Hindi: 1537 में असूनचिओन की स्थापना के बाद से, पैराग्वे अपने स्वदेशी चरित्र और पहचान को बनाए रखने में कामयाब रहा है। = English: Since the foundation of Asunción in 1537, Paraguay has managed to keep a lot of its indigenous character and identity.	Voyagers planning sex reassignment surgery abroad must ensure they're carrying valid documents for the return trip.	Travellers planning to undergo sex reassignment surgery abroad should ensure that they have valid documents for their return journey.
Hindi: उनके अंतर्गत अधिक मध्यम आकार की बिल्लियाँ होती हैं जो खरगोशों से लेकर मृगों और हिरणों तक के मध्यम आकार के शिकार खाती हैं. = English: Under them are more medium sized cats that eat medium sized prey ranging from rabbits to antelopes and deer.	Duty free shopping is the opportunity to buy goods exempted from taxes and excises at certain locations.	Tax free shopping is an opportunity to buy goods exempted from taxes and duty.
Hindi: इसे मंगलवार को काटना तय किया गया था, लेकिन एक आपातकालीन अदालत के फ़ैसले के बाद इसे बचा लिया गया था. = English: It had been scheduled to be cut down on Tuesday, but was saved after an emergency court ruling.	As with all South African National Parks, there are daily conservation and entry fees for the park.	All South African national parks charge a daily conservation and entrance fee, as do the park.
Hindi: जापान की परमाणु एजेंसी के अनुसार, प्लांट में रेडियोधर्मी सीज़ियम और आयोडीन की पहचान की गई है. = English: According to Japan's nuclear agency, radioactive caesium and iodine has been identified at the plant.	As NSA, he assisted Carter in diplomatically handling world affairs, such as the Camp David Accords, 1978; normalizing US–China relations thought the late 1970s; the Iranian Revolution, which led to the Iran hostage crisis, 1979; and the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan, 1979.	As NSA, he helped Carter handle diplomatic matters of the world, such as the Camp David Accords, 1978; normalizing U.S.-China relations in the late 1970s, the Iranian Revolution, which led to the Iran hostage crisis, 1979; and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, 1979.
Hindi: वहाँ, उन्हें 53 वर्षीय सरोज बालासुब्रमण्यम का शव मिला, जो खून से सने कंबलों से ढका था. = English: There, they found the body of Saroja Balasubramanian, 53, covered with blood-stained blankets.	Prime Minister Stephen Harper has agreed to send the government's 'Clean Air Act' to an all-party committee for review, before its second reading, after Tuesday's 25 minute meeting with NDP leader Jack Layton at the PMO.	Prime Minister Stephen Harper has agreed to send the government's Clean Air Act (Clean Air Act) for a second reading before review by a parliamentary committee after a 25-minute meeting with NDP leader Jack Layton at PMO on Tuesday.
Hindi: हज़ारों मील दूर किसी को कॉल करने के लिए, आप सैटेलाइट इस्तेमाल करते हैं. = English: When you call someone who is thousands of miles away, you are using a satellite.	South Africa have defeated the All Blacks (New Zealand) in a rugby union Tri Nations match at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium in Rustenburg, South Africa.	South Africa's Royal Bafokeng Stadium in Rustenburg hosted a Rugby Union Tri Nations match where South Africa defeated All Blacks (New Zealand).
Hindi: “हू ने कहा, हम 2005 के स्तर से 2020 तक उल्लेखनीय अंतर से सकल घरेलू उत्पाद की प्रति यूनिट कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड उत्सर्जन में कटौती करने का प्रयास करेंगे. = English: "We will endeavour to cut carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by a notable margin by 2020 from the 2005 level," Hu said.	he cave itself, which survived the times, gives a very vivid image of Muhammad’s spiritual inclinations.	He withdrew himself, which lasted for a long time, giving a very bright image of Muhammad's spiritual inclination.
Hindi: शेर प्राइड नामक बड़े समूहों में रहने वाली सबसे बड़ी सामाजिक बिल्लियाँ हैं. = English: Lions are the most social cats, living in large groups called prides.	Foster care is supposed to provide all the necessities that were lacking in the home they were previously taken from.	Foster care is a way of meeting all the needs that a child does not get in the home from where he is brought.
Hindi: देख लें कि आप जिस बस से जाने की सोच रहे हैं वह हेब्रॉन जाती है न कि सिर्फ़ किरयात अरबा के नज़दीकी यहूदी स्थानों तक. = English: Check that the bus you are thinking of taking goes into Hebron and not just to the nearby Jewish settlement of Kiryat Arba.	MS is a disease that affects the central nervous system, which is made up of the brain, the spinal cord and the optic nerve.	MS affects the central nervous system, which includes the brain, spinal cord and optic nerve.
Hindi: श्नाइडर ने अपनी मातृभूमि में एक USAF बेस से वीडियो लिंक के माध्यम से गवाही दी. = English: Schneider testified via videolink from a USAF base in his homeland.	This is called a chemical's pH. You can make an indicator using red cabbage juice.	This is called the pH of a chemical. You can make a pH indicator out of red cabbage juice.
Hindi: अंतरिक्ष में उपग्रह को कॉल मिलता है और फिर इसे वापस नीचे, उसी समय परावर्तित करता है. = English: The satellite in space gets the call and then reflects it back down, almost instantly.	"This is not going to be goodbye. This is the closing of one chapter and the opening of a new one."	“This is not going to end. It is the end of one chapter and the beginning of another.”
Hindi: क्यों कोई संगठन एक प्रशिक्षण संगठन स्थापित करने की ज़्यादा समय लेने वाली प्रक्रिया को अपनाना चाहेगा? संगठनात्मक प्रशिक्षण अवधारणा को व्यवहार में लाने का एक उद्देश्य इनोवेशन है. = English: Why would an organization want to go through the time consuming process of establishing a learning organization? One goal for putting organizational learning concepts into practice is innovation.	On Monday, Sara Danius, permanent secretary of the Nobel Committee for Literature at the Swedish Academy, publicly announced during a radio program on Sveriges Radio in Sweden the committee, unable to reach Bob Dylan directly about winning the 2016 Nobel Prize in Literature, had abandoned its efforts to reach him.	On Monday, the permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy, Sara Danius, announced on a radio program on Swedish Radio that the committee had been unable to reach Bob Dylan directly and had given up on trying to win the 2016 Nobel Prize for Literature.
Hindi: लोगों की भीड़ ने राजा और रानी को अपनी गाड़ी की खिड़की खोलने के लिए मजबूर किया. = English: The mob of people forced the King And Queen to have their carriage windows wide open.	Ironing damp clothes can help them dry. Many hotels have an iron and ironing board available for loan, even if one is not present in the room.	Moist clothes can be ironed by using an iron. Many hotels provide ironing boards and irons on loan, even if they are not in the room.
Hindi: मरीज नाइजीरिया गया था, जहाँ इबोला वायरस के कुछ मामले सामने आए हैं. = English: The patient had been to Nigeria, where some cases of the Ebola virus have occurred.	If you're not used to driving on country roads, keep your wits about you: steep grades, narrow lanes, and sharp curves predominate.	If you are not used to driving on the roads of the country, keep this information with you: steep grades, narrow lanes and dangerous turns.
Hindi: हालांकि गोमा यथोचित सुरक्षित है, लेकिन गोमा के बाहर जाते समय उत्तर किवु प्रांत में चल रही लड़ाई की स्थिति को समझ लेना चाहिए। = English: While Goma is reasonably safe, any visits outside of Goma should be researched to understand the state of the fighting that persists in the North Kivu province.	It was ruled by the "Vichy" French. These were French people who had made peace with the Germans in 1940 and worked with the invaders instead of fighting them.	This “weti” was ruled by the French. It was the French who had made peace with the Germans in 1940 and worked with the invaders rather than fight them.
Hindi: फिलीपींस की विजय में अमेरिकी साम्राज्यवाद के युद्ध व्यय का भुगतान फिलिपिनो के लोगों ने खुद किया था. = English: The war expenditures of U.S. imperialism in the conquest of the Philippines were paid for by the Filipino people themselves.	Moldova is a multi-ethnic republic that has suffered from ethnic conflict.	Moldova is a multi-ethnic republic that has suffered from ethnic conflict.
Hindi: 1884 में, टेस्ला न्यूयॉर्क शहर में एडिसन कंपनी के साथ नौकरी स्वीकार करने के लिए यूनाइटेड स्टेट्स ऑफ़ अमेरिका चले गए। = English: In 1884, Tesla moved to the United States of America to accept a job with the Edison Company in New York City.	Then, Lakkha Singh took the lead in singing the bhajans.	Then, Lakhna Singh took over the leadership of the bhajan singing.
Hindi: लीक के अनुसार, दस्तावेज़, सीमा विवाद को संदर्भित करेगा, जो फ़िलिस्तीन 1967 के मध्यपूर्व युद्ध से पहले सीमाओं के आधार पर चाहता है. = English: The document, according to the leak, will refer to the borders dispute, which Palestine wants based on the borders before the 1967 Mideast War.	It is thinner under the maria and thicker under the highlands.	It is thin under the sea and thick under the highlands.
Hindi: 1889 में यह बंदरगाह कुख्यात नौसैनिक गतिरोध का ठिकाना था उस समय जर्मनी, अमेरिका और ब्रिटेन के सात जहाजों ने इस बंदरगाह से जाने से इनकार कर दिया था. = English: The harbor was the site of an infamous naval standoff in 1889 when seven ships from Germany, the US, and Britain refused to leave the harbor.	The Three Kingdoms was one of the bloodiest eras in Ancient China’s history thousands of people died fighting to sit in the highest seat in the grand palace at Xi’an.	The Three Kingdoms was one of the most bloody eras in ancient Chinese history, thousands of people died in the struggle to sit on the highest seat in the magnificent palace in Xi'an.
Hindi: ज़्यादातर मौतें पानी की धारा के विरुद्ध तैरने से होने वाली थकान की वजह से होती हैं, हो सकता है कि यह नामुमकिन भी हो. = English: Most deaths happen as result of fatigue trying to swim back against the current, which may be impossible.	This type of manager has difficulty making unpopular decisions, performing disciplinary action, performance evaluations, assigning responsibility, and holding people accountable.	A manager who is unable to take decisions, deal with disciplinary issues, conduct investigations, assign responsibility and hold people accountable will find it difficult to do so.
Hindi: द्वीप समूहों और झीलों में आपको अनिवार्य रूप से याट की ज़रूरत नहीं होती है. = English: In the archipelagos and lakes you do not necessarily need a yacht.	A simple popular dinner, especially during the summer, is the Pa amb Oli: Bread with olive oil, tomato, and any available condiments such as cheese, tunafish, etc.	A common popular dinner, especially in the summer, is pa amb oli: bread with olive oil, tomatoes, and any available tasty ingredients such as cheese, tuna fish, etc.
Hindi: हू ने विकासशील देशों को “ पुराने तरीकों से प्रदूषण फैलाने से रोकने और बाद में सफाई करने के लिए प्रोत्साहित किया।” = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	With Kundalini Yoga the Kundalini energy (enlightenment energy) is awakened through yoga postures, breathing exercises, mantras and visualizations.	Kundalini yoga awakens the Kundalini energy (knowledge energy) through yoga postures, breathing exercises, mantras and meditation.
Hindi: हालाँकि पार्क में कई जानवर इंसानों के देखने के लिए हैं, फिर भी वन्यजीव खूँखार होते हैं और इन्हें न तो कुछ खिलाना चाहिए या न ही परेशान करना चाहिए. = English: Though many of the animals in the park are used to seeing humans, the wildlife is nonetheless wild and should not be fed or disturbed.	In the warm climate of the Middle East, the house was not so important.	The Middle East's hot climate made a house less necessary.
Hindi: इस सीज़न में बीमारी के शुरुआती मामले जुलाई के आखिर में सामने आए थे. = English: The first cases of the disease this season were reported in late July.	NASA's shuttle program chief N. Wayne Hale Jr. said the foam had fallen "after the time we are concerned about."	NASA's shuttle program chief, N. Van Heel Jr., said that after the time we were concerned about, the foam fell.
Hindi: अरब के लोग इस धरती पर इस्लाम भी लेकर आए, और उसे कोमोरोस और मेयोटे में बड़े पैमाने पर फैलाया. = English: The Arabs also brought Islam to the lands, and it took in a big way in the Comoros and Mayotte.	The Sundarbans cover an area of 3,850 km², of which about one-third is covered in water/marsh areas.	The Sundarbans is spread over 3,850 square kilometers, of which about a third is water/marshy area.
Hindi: जिसके परिणामस्वरूप, मंच पर कलाकार गांजे भरी सिगरटें पीते हैं और ये थिएटर खुद दर्शकों को भी इसमें साथ शामिल होने के लिए प्रेरित करते हैं. = English: As a result, the performers smoke cannabis joints on stage, and the theatre itself is encouraging the audience to join in.	It takes a giant rocket over a 100 feet high to put a satellite or telescope in space.	To put a satellite or telescope in space, you need a rocket that is at least 100 feet tall.
Hindi: चूँकि बिशकेक की गलियों में कानून लागू करने वाले अधिकारी मौजूद नहीं थे, तो पूरी रात बड़े पैमाने पर लूट जारी रहने की सूचना मिली है. = English: Widespread looting reportedly continued overnight, as law enforcement officers were not present on Bishkek's streets.	They can see very well in the dark with night vision, and move very stealthily, too. Ocelots hunt their prey by blending in with their surroundings then pouncing on their prey.	They can see very well in the dark, and can move very quietly. Owl can move around in the area and then pounce on its prey.
Hindi: स्प्रिंगबोक्स के लिए, इसने पांच-मैचों की हार का सिलसिला समाप्त कर दिया. = English: For the Springboks, it ended a five-match losing streak.	Internal poisoning may not be immediately apparent. Symptoms, such as vomiting are sufficiently general that an immediate diagnosis cannot be made.	The symptoms of internal poisoning are not immediately apparent. They are usually common, such as vomiting, so it is not immediately diagnosed.
Hindi: अमेरिकी रक्षा विभाग की संयुक्त राज्य सामरिक रणनीति मलबे पर नज़र रख रही है। = English: The United States Strategic Command of the U.S. Department of Defense office is tracking the debris.	The official Falklands currency is the Falkland pound (FKP) whose value is set equivalent to that of one British pound (GBP).	The official currency of Falkland is the Falkland pound (FKP). It is fixed at one British pound (GBP).
Hindi: कनान देश में बड़े जंगलो के न होने के चलते वहाँ लकड़ियाँ बहुत महंगी थी। = English: There were no large forests in the land of Canaan, so wood was extremely expensive.	"He [Wales] basically lied to us from the start. First, by acting as if this was for legal reasons. Second, by pretending he was listening to us, right up to his art deletion."	“He has been lying to us from the beginning. First, pretending that it was for legal reasons. Second, pretending that he was listening to us while removing the art.”
Hindi: इटैलियन भी रोज़ाना इस्तेमाल होने वाली भाषा है जिसे राज्य में काम करने वाले अधिकांश लोग उपयोग में लाते हैं, जबकि लेटिन का धार्मिक रस्मों में इस्तेमाल किया जाता है. = English: Italian is also the everyday language used by most of those who work in the state while Latin is often used in religious ceremonies.	The main letters to watch out for are c and g, since their pronunciation varies based on the following vowel.	The main letters to be noted are c and g, as their pronunciation varies according to the following vowel.
Hindi: क्रिसमस ईसाई धर्म का एक सबसे महत्वपूर्ण अवकाश है और इसे यीशू के जन्मदिन के रूप में मनाया जाता है. = English: Christmas is one of the most important holidays of Christianity, and is celebrated as the birthday of Jesus.	But, if used without further qualifiers, the term tends to mean the food originally from the central and eastern parts of the main island Java.	But if used without an additional qualifier, this word means food that is originally from the central and eastern parts of the main Java island.
Hindi: साई के साथ-साथ सभी संज्ञा शब्द हमेशा अंग्रेज़ी के बड़े अक्षर से ही शुरू होते हैं, भले ही वे वाक्य के बीच में ही क्यों न हों. = English: All nouns, alongside the word Sie for you, always begin with a capital letter, even in the middle of a sentence.	Both Assassin-bugs and Bed-bugs are nidicolous, adapted to living in nest or housing of their host.	Both the hidden insect and the bedbug are nidovorous, which can live comfortably in a nest or host's house.
Hindi: अभी दो हफ़्ते पहले ही इस ट्रॉफ़ी को अपने नाम कर चुकी 'ऑल ब्लैक्स' टीम का यह फ़ाइनल मैच था. = English: It was the final match for the All Blacks, who had already won the trophy two weeks ago.	"She’s very cute and sings quite well, too," he said according to a transcript of the news conference.	“He said in a transcript of a news conference that she is very cute and sings well too.”
Hindi: परिभाषा में भौगोलिक अंतर है, जहाँ यूरोप के बजाय उत्तरी अमेरिका जैसे स्थानों पर आयु सीमा कम होगी. = English: The definition has geographic variations, where the age limit might be shorter in places such as North America than in Europe.	The capital of Moldova is Chişinău. The local language is Romanian, but Russian is widely used.	The capital of Moldova is Chisinau. The local language is Romanian, but Russian is widely used.
Hindi: जैसे चाँद पृथ्वी पर एक खिंचाव पैदा कर, ज्वार-भाटे का कारण बनता है, वैसे ही मिल्की वे भी धनु आकाशगंगा पर एक बल लगाता है. = English: Just like the moon exerts a pull on the earth, causing tides, so does the Milky Way exert a force on the Sagittarius galaxy.	The work done was mostly theoretical, but the program was written to simulate observations made of the Sagittarius galaxy.	Most of the work was theoretical, but observations of the Sagittarius galaxy were used to simulate the program.
Hindi: MS, बीमारी केंद्रीय तंत्रिका तंत्र पर असर करती है, जिसमें दिमाग, स्पाइनल कॉर्ड और ऑप्टिक नर्व शामिल हैं. = English: MS is a disease that affects the central nervous system, which is made up of the brain, the spinal cord and the optic nerve.	Curiously, though, mobile phone service is much stronger here than along many other stretches of the route, e.g. the Pennsylvania Wilds.	The interesting thing is that the Pennsylvania Wilds is one of the few places in the country where mobile phone service is better than in the rest of the country.
Hindi: इसे तेज़ी से प्राप्त करने का एकमात्र तरीका इसे चेक किए गए सामान के रूप में भेजना था। एयरलाइन के नियम उन्हें बिना यात्री के सामान भेजने की अनुमति नहीं देंगे, और यहीं पर आप काम आएँगे। = English: The only way to get it through faster was to send it as checked luggage. Airline regulations will not allow them to send luggage without a passenger, which is where you come in.	Virtual Scaffolds are internalized in the software and are meant to question, prompt, and explain procedures that may have been to challenging for the student to handle alone.	Virtual scaffolding software is the inner workings of the software and they raise questions about processes, point out problems, and provide information that students can only handle alone.
Hindi: शार्कों का अस्तित्व है, हालाँकि वे शायद ही कभी मनुष्यों पर हमला करते हैं। अधिकांश शार्क मनुष्यों से डरते हैं और तैर कर दूर चले जाते हैं। = English: Sharks do exist, however they rarely attack humans. Most sharks are scared of humans and would swim away.	A curry can be either "dry" or "wet" depending on the amount of liquid.	A curry can be “dry” or “wet” depending on its liquidity.
Hindi: यू.एस. कॉर्प्स ऑफ़ इंजीनियर्स ने अंदाजा लगाया कि 6 इंच बारिश पहले से क्षतिग्रस्त बांधों को तोड़ सकती है. = English: The U.S. Corps of Engineers estimated that 6 inches of rainfall could breach the previously damaged levees.	Other topics covered reportedly include the future state of Jerusalem which is sacred to both nations and the Jordan Valley issue.	Other allegedly involved subjects include the future status of Jerusalem, which is holy to both countries and the Jordan Valley problem.
Hindi: ट्रांसपोर्टेशन की कमी के डर ने यह संभावना बढ़ाई कि खेल टीम के समर्थकों के बिना बंद दरवाज़े के पीछे खेले जाने की मजबूरी होगी. = English: Fears of lack of transportation raised the possibility that the game would be forced to play behind closed doors without the team's supporters.	Crown Office, which is in overall charge of prosecutions, has indicated to journalists that no further comment will be made at least until indictment.	The Crown Office, which is responsible for the prosecution, has indicated to the press that no comment will be made at least until the prosecution is made.
Hindi: अर्जेंटीना दुनिया में सबसे अच्छी पोलो टीम और खिलाड़ियों के लिए जाना जाता है. = English: Argentina is well known for having one of the best polo teams and players in the world.	The first public reading of the document was by John Nixon in the yard of Independence Hall on July 8.	John Nixon's first public reading of the document was held on July 8, in the Independence Hall yard.
Hindi: भाषा और रीति-रिवाज़ में अंतर के बावजूद हज़ारों सालों से ईसाई धर्म ने यूरोपीय देशों को एक साथ बांधे रखा है. = English: For over a thousand years the Christian religion had bound European states together despite differences in language and customs. I	He was subsequently relocated to Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge.	Later they were transferred to Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge. I
Hindi: घबराए हुए राजा लुईस XVI, रानी मैरी एंटोनेट और उनके दो बच्चे (11 साल की मैरी थैरेस और चार साल का लुईस चार्ल्स) और राजा की बहन मैडम एलिजावेथ को 6 अक्टूबर 1789 को बाज़ार में मौजूद महिलाओं की भीड़ ने वर्साय से वापस पेरिस जाने के लिए मजबूर किया था. = English: The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	Nature-based tourism attracts people interested in visiting natural areas for the purpose of enjoying the scenery, including plant and animal wildlife.	Nature-based tourism, which attracts people interested in viewing natural scenery, including plants and animals in the wild.
Hindi: 1683 में चिंग राजवंश (1644-1912) ने ताइवान के पश्चिमी और उत्तरी तटीय क्षेत्रों में जबरन कब्ज़ा कर लिया और 1885 में ताइवान को साम्राज्य का प्रांत घोषित किया. = English: In 1683, Qing dynasty (1644-1912) forces take control of Taiwan’s western and northern coastal areas and declared Taiwan as a province of the Qing Empire in 1885.	Also to the north visit the great Sanctuary of Our Lady of Fatima (Shrine), a place of worldwide famous Marian apparitions.	Visit our great Lady of Fatima Sanctuary in the north, a famous place where you can see the rare and beautiful Marines.
Hindi: यह अवधारणा चीन से आई थी जहाँ बेर के फूल पसंदीदा फूल होते थे। = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	He trained as an obstetrician and began to work at the Auckland's National Women's Hospital in 1959.	They were trained as a gynecologist and started working at the National Women's Hospital in Auckland in 1959.
Hindi: रूमानियत में सांस्कृतिक नियतिवाद का बड़ा तत्व था, जो गोएथे, फिच्ते और श्लेगल जैसे लेखकों से लिया गया. = English: Romanticism had a large element of cultural determinism, drawn from writers such as Goethe, Fichte, and Schlegel.	The story presented in the French opera, by Camille Saint-Saens, is of an artist "whose life is dictated by a love for drugs and Japan."	The story of a drug addict artist, presented in the French opera by Camille Saint-Saens, is “whose life is depicted as a love for drugs and Japan.”
Hindi: “यह खत्म होने नहीं जा रहा है। यह एक अध्याय का समापन और एक नए अध्याय का उद्घाटन है।” = English: "This is not going to be goodbye. This is the closing of one chapter and the opening of a new one."	Across the United States of America, there are approximately 400,000 known cases of Multiple Sclerosis (MS), leaving it as the leading neurological disease in younger and middle aged adults.	Approximately 400,000 cases of multiple sclerosis (MS) are known to exist in the United States, which is a major neurological disease affecting young and middle-aged adults.
Hindi: हलडारश्वीक  गाँव से पास के एस्टूरॉय का द्वीप नज़र आता है और इसमें एक असाधारण अष्टकोणीय चर्च है। = English: The village of Haldarsvík offer views of the nearby island Eysturoy and has an unusual octagonal church.	No child should ever have to grow up in an environment that is not nurturing, caring, and educational, but they do.	No child should ever grow up in an environment that is not nurturing, caring and educational, but they are.
Hindi: फ़ोटोग्राफ़र को रोनाल्ड रीगन यूसीएलए मेडिकल सेंटर ले जाया गया, जहाँ बाद में उसकी मौत हो गई. = English: The photographer was transported to Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, where he subsequently died.	Virtual teams are held to the same standards of excellence as conventional teams, but there are subtle differences.	Virtual teams are also held to the same standards of excellence as traditional teams, but there are subtle differences.
Hindi: रॉस्बी संख्या जितनी छोटी होगी, चुंबकीय उत्क्रमण के संबंध में तारा उतना ही कम सक्रिय होगा. = English: The smaller the Rossby number, the less active the star with respect to magnetic reversals.	After its adoption by Congress on July 4, a handwritten draft signed by the President of Congress John Hancock and the Secretary Charles Thomson was then sent a few blocks away to the printing shop of John Dunlap.	On 4 July, the draft was adopted by the Congress, signed by the president John Hanock and secretary Charles Thorn, and sent to the printing shop of John Dunlap, a few blocks away.
Hindi: गीज़ा में मौजूद ग्रेट पिरामिड सात अजूबा में से केवल एक है जो आज भी खड़ा है। = English: The Great Pyramid at Giza is the only one of the seven wonders that is still standing today.	As soon as you get out of the current, swimming back is no more difficult than normally.	As soon as you get out of the current, swimming back is not too difficult.
Hindi: वे कई देशों के बैंक नोटों को भी उकेरने में शामिल थे, हाल ही में नए कनाडाई $5 और $100 बिलों के सामने वाले हिस्से में प्रधानमंत्री के चित्र उनके हाल के कामों के कुछ उदाहरण हैं. = English: He was also engaged in engraving banknotes for many countries, recent examples of his work including the Prime Ministerial portraits on the front of the new Canadian $5 and $100 bills.	Its long jaws were studded with more than 70 razor-sharp teeth, along with an extra set in the roof of its mouth, meaning that there was no escape for anything that crossed its path.	It had a long, serrated, 70-strong set of teeth in its upper jaw, meaning that there was no defence against anything it might encounter on its way.
Hindi: विखंडन बम इस सिद्धांत पर काम करता है कि कई प्रोटॉन और न्यूट्रॉन वाले एक नाभिक को एक साथ रखने के लिए ऊर्जा लगती है। = English: The fission bomb works on the principle that it takes energy to put together a nucleus with many protons and neutrons.	Thus, the pencil was a good friend to many people when it came out.	So, when the pencil came, it was a good friend to many people.
Hindi: इसके अतिरिक्ता, ऐसा करने में असफल होने के गंभीर परिणाम होते हैं: अवसाद बढ़ना, कुपोषण और अंततः मृत्यु। = English: Moreover, failure to do so has serious consequences: growth depression, malnutrition, and ultimately death.	towards the end of the Middle Ages western Europe began to develop their own style. one of the biggest developments of the time as a result of the crusades people began to use buttons to fasten clothing.	In the late Middle Ages, Western Europe began to develop its style. The result of the Crusades was one of the largest developments of people using buttons to tie clothes.
Hindi: केवल दो हफ़्तों में अमेरिकियों और फ़्री फ़्रेंच बलों ने दक्षिणी फ़्रांस को मुक्त कर दिया था और जर्मनी की ओर बढ़ रहे थे. = English: In just two weeks the Americans and Free French forces had liberated southern France and were turning towards Germany.	The archipelago lies 120 km north of the Peninsula. The largest is King George Island with the settlement of Villa Las Estrellas.	The island group, peninsula 120 km north of is located. With the residential area of the leisure of the Austere, King George is the largest island.
Hindi: ज़्यादातर मौतें पानी की धारा के विरुद्ध तैरने से होने वाली थकान की वजह से होती हैं, हो सकता है कि यह नामुमकिन भी हो. = English: Most deaths happen as result of fatigue trying to swim back against the current, which may be impossible.	In contrast, animal foods (ants, termites, eggs) not only are easily digestible, but they provide high-quantity proteins that contain all the essential amino acids.	In contrast, animal food (ants, termites, eggs) is not only easily digestible but also provides high amounts of protein containing all the essential amino acids.
Hindi: विलासिता के एक उपरिकेंद्र होने के लिए इसको लगभग 400 A.D से  1100 A.D तक जाना गया। = English: Its renown for being an epicenter of luxury began in about 400 A.D. and lasted up until about 1100 A.D.	Mrs. Kirchner announced her intention to run for president at the Argentine Theatre, the same location she used to start her 2005 campaign for the Senate as member of the Buenos Aires province delegation.	Mrs. Kirchnerr announced her candidacy for the presidency at the Teatro Argentino, the same place where she launched her campaign for a Senate seat in 2005.
Hindi: ज़्यादा परंपरागत चर्चों में ईस्टर सप्ताहांत में शनिवार रात को ईस्टर विजिल का आयोजन किया जाता है, जिसमें लोग क्रिस के पुनर्जन्म का उत्सव मनाने के लिए आधी रात के समय उत्सव मनाना शुरू करते हैं. = English: More traditional churches often hold an Easter Vigil on Saturday night during the Easter weekend, with the congregations often breaking into celebration at the stroke of midnight to celebrate Christ's resurrection.	Biological clocks are self sustaining oscillators which will continue a period of free-running cycling even in the absence of external cues.	Biological clocks are self-sustaining oscillators that can run a free-running cycle for a period of time in the absence of external cues.
Hindi: एक तारे की रॉस्बी संख्या, जो प्लाज़्मा फ़्लो से संबंधित है, का पता लगाने के लिए उसकी चमक और रोटेशन का एक साथ इस्तेमाल किया जाता है, = English: The luminosity and rotation are used together to determine a star's Rossby number, which is related to plasma flow.	The crash occurred high up in mountainous terrain, and is believed to have been the result of hostile fire.	More accidents occur in mountainous areas. This is attributed to mutual enmity.
Hindi: इसके विपरीत, पशु खाद्य पदार्थ (चींटियाँ, दीमक, अंडे) न केवल आसानी से पचने योग्य होते हैं, बल्कि वे उच्च मात्रा में प्रोटीन प्रदान करते हैं जिसमें सभी ज़रूरी अमीनो एसिड होते हैं. = English: In contrast, animal foods (ants, termites, eggs) not only are easily digestible, but they provide high-quantity proteins that contain all the essential amino acids.	For example, one might say that the motor car necessarily leads to the development of roads.	For example, one could say that motor cars necessarily affect the development of roads.
Hindi: हालाँकि, ज़्यादातर संकेत सिर्फ़ कैटलन में ही इंगित किए जाते हैं, क्योंकि यह कानूनन वहाँ की पहली आधिकारिक भाषा है. = English: However, most signs are indicated only in Catalan because it is established by law as the first official language.	The willingness of governments to issue passports with gender not stated (X) or documents updated to match a desired name and gender varies.	The governments' desire to issue passports with gender is not mentioned or the documents are updated to match the name and gender.
Hindi: एक साक्षात्कार में, उन्होंने कहा कि नया प्रकार “बहुत ज़्यादा मृत्यु दर के कारण बहुत चिंताजनक और ख़तरनाक था”. = English: In an interview, he said the new variant was "very highly troubling and alarming because of the very high fatality rate."	The 35mm format is actually, somewhat confusingly, 36mm in width by 24mm in height.	The 35 mm format is actually a little misleading, which is 24 mm high by 36 mm wide.
Hindi: ऐसा माना जाता है कि पेरिस के निवासी अहंकारी, असभ्य और अभिमानी होते हैं। = English: Parisians have a reputation for being egocentric, rude and arrogant.	The Sundarbans are the largest littoral mangrove belt in the world, stretching 80 km (50 mi) into the Bangladeshi and Indian hinterland from the coast.	Sundarbans is the largest coastal mangrove forest in the world, extending 80 km (50 mi) inland from the Indian and Bangladeshi coasts.
Hindi: ऐसे बच्चे “पाशविक प्रवृत्ति वाले” या जंगली कहलाते हैं. कुछ जंगली बच्चों को लोग (ज़्यादातार उनके माता-पिता) दुनिया से अलग रखते हैं. कुछ मामलों में बच्चों की किसी मानसिक या शारीरिक कमी की वजह से माता-पिता ऐसा करते हैं. = English: Such children are called "feral" or wild. Some feral children have been confined by people (usually their own parents); in some cases this child abandonment was due to the parents' rejection of a child's severe intellectual or physical impairment.	Widespread looting reportedly continued overnight, as law enforcement officers were not present on Bishkek's streets.	Because there were no police officers in the streets of Bishkek, there were reports of widespread looting throughout the night.
Hindi: 5 अगस्त को प्रदर्शन के दौरान प्रमुख गायक स्टीवन टायलर के मंच से गिर कर घायल होने के बाद उन्होंने दौरे को रद्द कर दिया है. = English: They have cancelled the tour after lead singer Steven Tyler was injured after he fell off stage while performing on August 5.	Written on the back of the Declaration of Independence were the words "Original Declaration of Independence dated 4th July 1776". The text appears on the bottom of the document, upside down.	The words “Fourth of July 1776” are written on the back of the Declaration of Independence. “Text of the document appears on the bottom, upside down.”
Hindi: हर्शे और चेस के परीक्षण का एक प्रमुख सुझाव था कि DNA एक जेनेटिक मटेरियल था. = English: The Hershey and Chase experiment was one of the leading suggestions that DNA was a genetic material.	The scenes are displayed on the pyramids and the different pyramids are lit up.	The pyramids are shown with the scenes and various pyramids are shown.
Hindi: जिस तरह पेरिस को आज की दुनिया की फ़ैशन राजधानी के रूप में जाना जाता है उसी तरह कॉन्स्टेंटिनोपल को सामंती यूरोप की फैशन राजधानी के रूप में माना जाता था. = English: In the manner that Paris is known as the fashion capital of the contemporary world, Constantinople was regarded as the fashion capital of feudal Europe.	The Tibetan Buddhism is based on the teachings of Buddha, but were extended by the mahayana path of love and by a lot of techniques from Indian Yoga.	Tibetan Buddhism is based on the teachings of Buddha, but it has been enhanced by many techniques of the Mahayana path of love and Indian yoga.
Hindi: कई जर्मन बेक्ड सामानों में बादाम, अखरोट और दूसरे पेड़ों की गिरी शामिल हैं. लोकप्रिय केक अक्सर विशेष रूप से स्ट्रॉन्ग कॉफ़ी के साथ अच्छे लगते हैं. = English: Many German baked goods also feature almonds, hazelnuts, and other tree nuts. Popular cakes often pair particularly well with a cup of strong coffee.	The village of Haldarsvík offer views of the nearby island Eysturoy and has an unusual octagonal church.	The island of Askøy is visible from the village of Haldøy, and it contains an extraordinary octagonal church.
Hindi: उसे समुद्री डाकुओं ने लूटा था, तिब्बत में पागल कुत्ते ने हमला किया, नेपाल में शादी से भाग निकला और भारत में गिरफ्तार कर लिया गया। = English: He was robbed by pirates, attacked in Tibet by a rabid dog, escaped marriage in Nepal and was arrested in India.	The first cases of the disease this season were reported in late July.	The first cases of the disease this season were reported in the last week of July.
Hindi: हांगकांग के सर्वश्रेष्ठ नज़ारे प्राप्त करने के लिए, द्वीप को छोड़े और कॉव्लून वॉटरफ्रंट के विपरीत चले जाये | = English: To get the best views of Hong Kong, leave the island and head for the Kowloon waterfront opposite.	His 1,000th stamp was the magnificent "Great Deeds by Swedish Kings" by David Klöcker Ehrenstrahl in 2000, which is listed in the Guinness Book of World Records.	David Clough Ernstäl has made his 1000th magnificent stamp “Grandes Dés des rois sûdois” in 2000. It was included in the Guinness Book of World Records.
Hindi: अंतरिक्ष में उपग्रह को कॉल मिलता है और फिर इसे वापस नीचे, उसी समय परावर्तित करता है. = English: The satellite in space gets the call and then reflects it back down, almost instantly.	According to police, the driver of the vehicle that hit the photographer is unlikely to face criminal charges.	The police say that the driver of the vehicle that hit the photographer is unlikely to face criminal charges.
Hindi: अरस्तू, एक दार्शनिक, ने सिद्ध किया कि सब कुछ एक या चार तत्वों के मिश्रण से बना है. वे पृथ्वी, जल, वायु और अग्नि थे. = English: Aristotle, a philosopher, theorised that everything is made up of a mixture of one or more of four elements. They were earth, water, air, and fire.	Only mutations in germ-line cells can be passed on to children, while mutations elsewhere can cause cell-death or cancer.	Only germ-line cells can grow to children, while other growths can be destroyed or cause cancer in other cells.
Hindi: अगर आप सर्दियों में उत्तरी बाटलिक को पार करते हैं, तो आपको केबिन स्थान की जांच करनी होगी , क्योंकि क्योंकि जो लोग ज्यादा प्रभावित है उन्हें बर्फ से गुजरने पर काफी भयानक शोर महसूस होगा । = English: If crossing the Northern Baltic in winter, check the cabin location, as going through ice causes quite horrible noise for those most affected.	Domestic goats were generally kept in herds that wandered on hills or other grazing areas, often tended by goatherds who were frequently children or adolescents, similar to the more widely known shepherd. These methods of herding are still used today.	Domestic goats were usually kept in herds that roamed the mountains or other grazing areas, often moving to the side of the herd where there were often kids or young adults, more widely known as a herdsman. These herding methods are still used today.
Hindi: प्रत्येक मंदिर में मंदिर का एक खुला प्रांगण था और फिर एक आंतरिक गर्भगृह था जिसमें केवल पुजारी ही प्रवेश कर सकते थे। = English: Each temple had an open temple courtyard and then an inner sanctuary that only the priests could enter.	Some animals, such as elephants and giraffes, tend to approach closely to cars and standard equipment will allow good viewing.	Elephants and giraffes like some animals, cars very close and standard equipment will be a good view.
Hindi: कुंडलिनी योग के द्वारा कुंडलिनी ऊर्जा (ज्ञान ऊर्जा) को योग मुद्राओं, श्वास अभ्यास, मंत्रों और मानसदर्शन के माध्यम से जागृत किया जाता है। = English: With Kundalini Yoga the Kundalini energy (enlightenment energy) is awakened through yoga postures, breathing exercises, mantras and visualizations.	Gold may be worked into all sorts of shapes. It can be rolled into tiny shapes.	Gold can be worked in any shape. It can be bent into small shapes.
Hindi: हालाँकि यह अकेला नहीं है, प्रयोग करना, और प्रयोग एक ऐसा परीक्षण होता है जिसका इस्तेमाल करके एक या इससे ज़्यादा संभावित परिकल्पनाओं को ख़त्म करने, सवाल करने, और अवलोकन करने से भी वैज्ञानिक शोध को मार्गदर्शन मिलता है. = English: It isn’t alone though, experimentation, and an experiment is a test that is used to eliminate one or more of the possible hypotheses, asking questions, and making observations also guide scientific research.	The most readily accessible plant resources would have been the proteins accessible in leaves and legumes, but these are hard for primates like us to digest unless they are cooked.	Plants provide us with the easiest resources of protein, but for primates like us, it is difficult to digest it without cooking.
Hindi: घबराए हुए राजा लुईस XVI, रानी मैरी एंटोनेट और उनके दो बच्चे (11 साल की मैरी थैरेस और चार साल का लुईस चार्ल्स) और राजा की बहन मैडम एलिजावेथ को 6 अक्टूबर 1789 को बाज़ार में मौजूद महिलाओं की भीड़ ने वर्साय से वापस पेरिस जाने के लिए मजबूर किया था. = English: The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	Insects were the first animals to take to the air. Their ability to fly helped them evade enemies more easily and find food and mates more efficiently.	The first animals to fly were insects. Their ability to fly enabled them to more easily avoid enemies and to more efficiently find food and mates.
Hindi: 1889 में यह बंदरगाह कुख्यात नौसैनिक गतिरोध का ठिकाना था उस समय जर्मनी, अमेरिका और ब्रिटेन के सात जहाजों ने इस बंदरगाह से जाने से इनकार कर दिया था. = English: The harbor was the site of an infamous naval standoff in 1889 when seven ships from Germany, the US, and Britain refused to leave the harbor.	Hamilton confirmed Howard University Hospital admitted the patient in stable condition.	Hamilton confirmed that the University of Harvard Hospital admitted the patient in stable condition.
Hindi: कुंडलिनी योग के द्वारा कुंडलिनी ऊर्जा (ज्ञान ऊर्जा) को योग मुद्राओं, श्वास अभ्यास, मंत्रों और मानसदर्शन के माध्यम से जागृत किया जाता है। = English: With Kundalini Yoga the Kundalini energy (enlightenment energy) is awakened through yoga postures, breathing exercises, mantras and visualizations.	The program started at 8:30 p.m. local time (15.00 UTC).	The program started at 8:30 am local time (15.00 UTC).
Hindi: इस बर्ताव से कभी-कभी लीडर और बाकी टीम के बीच दरारें पैदा हो जाती हैं. = English: This behavior oftentimes results in rifts between the leaders and the rest of the team.	A car bomb detonated at police headquarters in Gaziantep, Turkey yesterday morning killed two police officers and injured more than twenty other people.	A car bomb exploded at the police headquarters in the Turkish city of Gaziantep on Tuesday, killing two police officers and injuring more than 20 people.
Hindi: आम तौर पर, ट्रैवल एजेंट ऐसे पैकेज ऑफ़र करते हैं, जिनमें नाश्ता, हवाई अड्डे आने-जाने की व्यवस्था या हवाई यात्रा की टिकट के साथ-साथ होटल का किराया भी शामिल होता है. = English: Travel agents usually offer packages that include breakfast, transportation arrangements to/from the airport or even combined flight and hotel packages.	Smaller tournaments and matches can also be seen here at other times of the year.	In other times of the year, small tournaments and matches can also be watched here.
Hindi: प्रौद्योगिकी आभासी क्षेत्र यात्राओं के साथ कुछ उपाय भी प्रदान करता है। छात्र संग्रहालय की कलाकृतियों को देख सकते हैं, एक मछलीघर की यात्रा कर सकते हैं, या अपनी कक्षा में एकसाथ बैठकर सुंदर कला की प्रशंसा कर सकते हैं। = English: Technology offers the solution with virtual field trips. Students can look at museum artifacts, visit an aquarium, or admire beautiful art while sitting with their class.	Congress began funding the obscenity initiative in fiscal 2005 and specified that the FBI must devote 10 agents to adult pornography.	Congress began funding for pornography in fiscal year 2005 and specified that the FBI should dedicate 10 agents to adult pornography.
Hindi: यह ज़्यादातर पदार्थ की चार स्थितियों जैसा ही था (उसी क्रम में): ठोस, तरल, गैस, और प्लाज़्मा, हालाँकि उन्होंने यह सिद्धांत भी स्थापित किया कि हमें जो दिखाई देता है वे उससे भी नए पदार्थों में बदल जाते हैं. = English: This was more like the four states of matter (in the same order): solid, liquid, gas, and plasma, though he also theorised that they change into new substances to form what we see.	Shared taxis are a quick and comfortable means to travel to nearby places, such as Paro (Nu 150) and Punakha (Nu 200).	Shared taxis like Paro (Nu 150) and Punaka (Nu 200) are fast and comfortable ways to get around the nearby areas.
Hindi: जापान की परमाणु एजेंसी के अनुसार, प्लांट में रेडियोधर्मी सीज़ियम और आयोडीन की पहचान की गई है. = English: According to Japan's nuclear agency, radioactive caesium and iodine has been identified at the plant.	Fourteen schools in Hawaii located on or near coastlines were closed all of Wednesday despite the warnings being lifted.	The warning was lifted but 14 schools near the sea shore or nearby were closed on Wednesday.
Hindi: प्राचीन संस्कृतियों और जनजातियों ने दूध, बाल, मांस और चमड़े को अपनी आसान पहुँच में बनाए रखना शुरू कर दिया. = English: Ancient cultures and tribes began to keep them for easy access to milk, hair, meat, and skins.	People would bring sacrifices to the gods and the priests would try to attend to the needs of the gods through ceremonies and festivals.	People bring sacrifices to the gods and priests spend their time serving the gods in ceremonies and festivals.
Hindi: इसने हमें ट्रेन, कार और इसी प्रकार के कई अन्य परिवहन के साधन दिए हैंं। = English: It has brought us the train, the car, and many other transportation devices.	They also define routes for popular hiking and cycling trails.	They have also set up popular hiking and cycling trails.
Hindi: यह कहने की कोई ज़रूरत नहीं कि यदि आप रोमांस लैंग्वेज़ जानते हैं, तो आपके लिए पुर्तगाली सीखना आसान होगा. = English: Needless to say, if you know a Romance language, it will be easier for you to learn Portuguese.	To better represent traffic flow, relationships have been established between the three main characteristics: (1) flow, (2) density, and (3) velocity.	To better show the traffic flow, three main features are related: (1) flow, (2) density, and (3) velocity.
Hindi: सबसे नज़दीकी सिरे पर क्रस्ट की मोटाई करीब 70 किलोमीटर है और सबसे दूर के सिरे पर यह 100 किलोमीटर है. = English: The crust is about 70 km thick on the near side and 100 km thick on the far side.	Segregation and recombination shuffle variation back and forth between the two pools with each generation.	Differential accretion and recycling of material between the two plates takes place in each generation.
Hindi: इसे पतले तार में खींचा जा सकता है, जिसे मोड़ा और गूंथा जा सकता है। इसे पीटा जा सकता है या शीट बनाई जा सकती हैं। = English: It can be pulled into thin wire, which can be twisted and plaited. It can be hammered or rolled into sheets.	Singapore is generally an extremely safe place to be and very easy to navigate, and you can buy almost anything after arriving.	Singapore is generally a safe place to live in. You can navigate around easily and almost everything is available for purchase after you arrive.
Hindi: मरीज नाइजीरिया गया था, जहाँ इबोला वायरस के कुछ मामले सामने आए हैं. = English: The patient had been to Nigeria, where some cases of the Ebola virus have occurred.	Deputy Inspector General D K Arya said, "We have arrested five persons who raped the Swiss woman and recovered her mobile and laptop".	Deputy Inspector DK Arya said, “We have arrested five people who raped the Swiss woman and recovered her mobile and laptop from them”.
Hindi: किसी बाइनरी संख्या में दो में से एक ही मान हो सकता है, यानी 0 या 1, और इन संख्याओं को ही बाइनरी अंक - या कंप्यूटर की शब्दावली में बिट कहा जाता है. = English: A binary number can have only one of two values, i.e. 0 or 1, and these numbers are referred to as binary digits - or bits, to use computer jargon.	In 1884, Tesla moved to the United States of America to accept a job with the Edison Company in New York City.	In 1884, Tesla moved to New York City to work for Edison's company.
Hindi: मक्का के उत्तर में स्थित पहाड़ों में से एक के शीर्ष पर स्थित गुफा दुनिया के बाकी हिस्सों से पूरी तरह कटी हुई है। = English: Resting on the top of one of the mountains north of Mecca, the cave is completely isolated from the rest of the world.	Middle order batsmen, Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid, performed well and made a hundred-run partnership.	Mid-order batsmen Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid performed well and made a century partnership.
Hindi: साथ ही संयुक्त राष्ट्र संघ वैश्विक तापवृद्धि (ग्लोबल वार्मिंग) से प्रभावित देशों को इसके प्रभावों से निपटने में सहायता करने के लिए एक निधि को एकत्र करने की आशा करता है। = English: The U.N. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts.	Some people thought he was right but many people believed the opposite; that the Solar System moved around the Earth, including the Sun (and even the other stars).	Some people thought that he was right, but many people thought the opposite, that the solar system revolved around the sun (and even other stars).
Hindi: काम पर जाने के लिए अपनी गाड़ियों से छोटे शहरो को छोड़ देते हैं और दूसरों द्वारा पारित किया गया काम की स्थान है जो उन्होंने अभी छोड़ी है। = English: Every morning, people leave small country towns in cars to go their workplace and are passed by others whose work destination is the place they have just left.	A search of the Internet for 'Hostile environment course' will probably provide the address of a local company.	Internet searches for this term 'hostile environment course' often provide you with a local company's address.
Hindi: एनएसए के रूप में, उन्होंने कूटनीतिक रूप से विश्व मामलों को संभालने में कार्टर की सहायता की, जैसे कि कैंप डेविड एकॉर्ड्स, 1978; 1970 के दशक के अंत में अमेरिका-चीन संबंधों को सामान्य बनाना; ईरानी क्रांति, जो ईरान बंधक संकट का कारण बनी, 1979; और अफ़गानिस्तान में सोवियत आक्रमण, 1979. = English: As NSA, he assisted Carter in diplomatically handling world affairs, such as the Camp David Accords, 1978; normalizing US–China relations thought the late 1970s; the Iranian Revolution, which led to the Iran hostage crisis, 1979; and the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan, 1979.	This too can be borrowed from the stock at the entrance but that clothing isn't washed after every user so you may not feel comfortable wearing these skirts. One size fits all for men!	It can be taken from the stock at the entrance but those clothes are not washed after every use so perhaps you will find this skirt uncomfortable to wear. Men's sizes are available only in one size.
Hindi: आप जिस देश में जा रहे हैं यदि वह यात्रा परामर्श के अधीन है तो आपका यात्रा स्वास्थ्य बीमा या आपकेका यात्रा रद्द बीमा प्रभावित हो सकता है। = English: If the country you will be visiting becomes subject to a travel advisory, your travel health insurance or your trip cancellation insurance may be affected.	If you want to be close to the action you're going to have to get in early to get a camping site close to the music.	If you want to be close to the action, you will have to get to the music campsite as soon as possible.
Hindi: ओहियो में अधिकारियों का कहना है कि एक डॉक्टर जो पिट्सबर्ग, पेंसिल्वेनिया में बच्चों के अस्पताल में काम करती थी उन पर बुधवार को अपनी कार की डिक्की में अपनी माँ के मृत पाए जाने के बाद संगीन हत्या के आरोप लगेंगे. = English: A doctor who worked at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania will be charged with aggravated murder after her mother was found dead in the trunk of her car Wednesday, authorities in Ohio say.	The strategy proved effective, cutting off vital military and civilian supplies, although this blockade violated generally accepted international law codified by several international agreements of the past two centuries.	The blockade was effective in cutting off important military and civilian supplies, though it violated the international law that has been generally accepted for the last two centuries.
Hindi: उदाहरण के लिए लॉयर वैली, राइन वैली के महलों में जाना या दानुबे की दिलचस्प जगहों तक जाने के लिए क्रूज़ से सफ़र करना या इरी कैनाल के साथ-साथ बोटिंग करना. = English: For example visiting castles in the Loire Valley, the Rhine valley or taking a cruise to interesting cites on the Danube or boating along the Erie Canal.	It is reported that some 9400 homes in the region are without water and approximately 100 without electricity.	A report says that this area has 9,400 houses facing water shortage and almost 100 facing power shortage.
Hindi: पुर्तगालियों ने इसे खत्म कर दिया और इसे कासा ब्रांका नाम से इसको फिर से बनाया फिर भूकंप के बाद इसे 1755 में छोड़ दिया गया. = English: The Portuguese destroyed it and rebuilt it under the name Casa Branca, only to abandon it after an earthquake in 1755.	Bachmann, who won the Ames Straw Poll in August, decided to end her campaign.	In August, Ams Strom Pol won the campaign to win the campaign to end the decision.
Hindi: पुरुषों को दृढ़ता से नकारें और अपनी बात पर बेहिचक अड़ी रहें (सांस्कृतिक अंतरों के होने या नहीं होने से यह सही नहीं हो जाता!). = English: Be firm in turning down men, and don't be afraid to stand your ground (cultural differences or not, it doesn't make it ok!).	Filters vary in effectiveness, and should you have a concern, then you should consider buying your water in a sealed bottle from a reputable company.	Filters are not all the same, and you should consider this before you consider buying your water in a sealed bottle from a reputable company.
Hindi: घबराए हुए राजा लुईस XVI, रानी मैरी एंटोनेट और उनके दो बच्चे (11 साल की मैरी थैरेस और चार साल का लुईस चार्ल्स) और राजा की बहन मैडम एलिजावेथ को 6 अक्टूबर 1789 को बाज़ार में मौजूद महिलाओं की भीड़ ने वर्साय से वापस पेरिस जाने के लिए मजबूर किया था. = English: The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	They were compelled to pay taxes to the U.S. colonial regime to defray a major part of the expenditures and the interest on bonds floated in the name of the Philippine government through the Wall Street banking houses.	They were forcing the American Street colonial government to pay taxes, which was a large part of the expenditure and the Philly Street government was cheating on the interest of the bonds on the name of the Philippine government, which were issued by the Wall Street banking houses through the Philly Street government.
Hindi: जैसा कि परीक्षण की निगरानी की गई थी और इसकी प्रभावशीलता का मूल्यांकन किया गया था, उसी तरह पूरक कीट नियंत्रण परीक्षण में निशानेबाज़ों की रेंजरों द्वारा बारीकी से निगरानी की जानी थी. = English: Shooters in the supplementary pest control trial were to be closely supervised by rangers, as the trial was monitored and its effectiveness evaluated.	By 1976, thirty percent of Machu Picchu had been restored and restoration continues till today.	By 1976, thirty percent of Machu Picchu had been restored and restoration work continues to this day.
Hindi: सरकार ने इंसेफेलाइटिस वैक्सीन के कई मिलियन वायल का वादा किया है, जो अगले साल स्वास्थ्य एजेंसियों को तैयार करने में मदद करेगी. = English: Several million vials of encephalitis vaccine have also been promised by the government, which will help prepare health agencies for next year.	If you booked your flights and accommodation for 2020 before the postponement was announced, you may have a tricky situation.	If you have booked your flights and stay for 2020 before the announcement of the suspension, this could be a difficult situation for you.
Hindi: PALM परीक्षण में, ZMapp ने एक नियंत्रण के रूप में कार्य किया, जिसका अर्थ है कि वैज्ञानिकों ने इसे बेसलाइन के रूप में इस्तेमाल किया और इसके साथ तीन अन्य उपचारों की तुलना की. = English: In the PALM trial, ZMapp served as a control, meaning scientists used it as a baseline and compared the three other treatments to it.	The Report is highly critical of almost every aspect of the present policy of the Executive towards Iraq and it urges an immediate change of direction.	This report is extremely critical of the current policy of the administration towards Iraq and calls for immediate change in its direction.
Hindi: आज, टिम्बकटू एक साधनहीन शहर है, हालाँकि इसकी प्रतिष्‍ठा इसके पर्यटक आकर्षण से बनाती है, और इसमें एक हवाई अड्डा है. = English: Today, Timbuktu is an impoverished town, although its reputation makes it a tourist attraction, and it has an airport.	Japans holds nearly 7,000 islands (the biggest being Honshu), making Japan the 7th largest island in the world!	Japan has nearly 7,000 islands (the largest island is Honshu). It gives Japan the 7th largest island in the world!
Hindi: घबराए हुए राजा लुईस XVI, रानी मैरी एंटोनेट और उनके दो बच्चे (11 साल की मैरी थैरेस और चार साल का लुईस चार्ल्स) और राजा की बहन मैडम एलिजावेथ को 6 अक्टूबर 1789 को बाज़ार में मौजूद महिलाओं की भीड़ ने वर्साय से वापस पेरिस जाने के लिए मजबूर किया था. = English: The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	Reindeer husbandry is an important livelihood among the Sámi and the culture surrounding the trade is important also for many with other professions.	The gaur is an important livelihood for the Santhals and the culture around this trade is also important for other businesses.
Hindi: एडगर वेगुइला के हाथ और जबड़े जख्मि हो गये, जबकि क्रिस्टोफ़र श्नाइडर को चेहरे की पुनर्निर्माण सर्जरी की आवश्यकता थी। = English: Edgar Veguilla received arm and jaw wounds while Kristoffer Schneider was left requiring reconstructive surgery for his face.	Aristotle, a philosopher, theorised that everything is made up of a mixture of one or more of four elements. They were earth, water, air, and fire.	Aristotle, a philosopher, proved that everything is made up of one or four elements. They were earth, water, air and fire.
Hindi: जैसे ही आप धारा से निकल आते हैं, पीछे की ओर तैरने में कोई खास मुश्किल नहीं होती है. = English: As soon as you get out of the current, swimming back is no more difficult than normally.	Some atoms have unstable nuclei which means that they tend to break apart with little or no nudging.	Some molecules have an unstable nucleus, which means that they have a tendency to break up with little or no shock.
Hindi: MS, बीमारी केंद्रीय तंत्रिका तंत्र पर असर करती है, जिसमें दिमाग, स्पाइनल कॉर्ड और ऑप्टिक नर्व शामिल हैं. = English: MS is a disease that affects the central nervous system, which is made up of the brain, the spinal cord and the optic nerve.	In late 2015, TogiNet established AstroNet Radio as a subsidiary station.	In the last quarter of 2015, TogiNet established a partner station in the form of AstroNet Radio.
Hindi: उसे समुद्री डाकुओं ने लूटा था, तिब्बत में पागल कुत्ते ने हमला किया, नेपाल में शादी से भाग निकला और भारत में गिरफ्तार कर लिया गया। = English: He was robbed by pirates, attacked in Tibet by a rabid dog, escaped marriage in Nepal and was arrested in India.	By September 17, 1939, the Polish defense was already broken, and the only hope was to retreat and reorganise along the Romanian bridgehead.	By September 17, 1939, the Polish defense line was almost broken, and the only hope was to retreat and then unite with the Romanian bridgehead.
Hindi: पुर्तगालियों ने इसे खत्म कर दिया और इसे कासा ब्रांका नाम से इसको फिर से बनाया फिर भूकंप के बाद इसे 1755 में छोड़ दिया गया. = English: The Portuguese destroyed it and rebuilt it under the name Casa Branca, only to abandon it after an earthquake in 1755.	Remains of sewage systems have been found in the houses of the Minoan cities of Crete and Santorini in Greece.	Remains of sewer systems have been found in the Minoan cities of Crete and Santorini.
Hindi: जब संघीय सरकार ने डेवोनपोर्ट, तस्मानिया में मर्सी अस्पताल का वित्तपोषण करने के लिए कदम उठाया, तब राज्य सरकार और कुछ संघीय सांसदों ने नवंबर तक बुलाए जाने वाले संघीय चुनाव की प्रस्तावना में इस कार्य की आलोचना की. = English: Ever since the Federal Government stepped in to take over funding of the Mersey hospital in Devonport, Tasmania, the state government and some federal MPs have criticised this act as a stunt in the prelude to the federal election to be called by November.	Hong Kong Island gives the territory of Hong Kong its name and is the place that many tourists regard as the main focus.	Hong Kong Island is the name of the area that gives Hong Kong its name and is the place that many tourists consider to be the main centre of the city.
Hindi: ब्रिटिश पाउंड आमतौर पर द्वीपों और स्टेनली क्रेडिट कार्ड में कहीं भी स्वीकार किए जाएँगे और संयुक्त राज्य अमेरिका डॉलर भी अक्सर स्वीकार किए जाते हैं। = English: British pounds will generally be accepted anywhere in the islands and within Stanley credit cards and United States dollars are also often accepted.	During these periods fierce warfare took place between many nobles fighting for the throne.	During this period, many of the princes fighting for the throne were engaged in a fierce war.
Hindi: हांगकांग द्वीप हांगकांग के क्षेत्र को उसका नाम देता है और यह वह स्थान है जिसे कई पर्यटक मुख्य केंद्र बिंदु मानते हैं। = English: Hong Kong Island gives the territory of Hong Kong its name and is the place that many tourists regard as the main focus.	UN peacekeepers, whom arrived in Haiti after the 2010 earthquake, are being blamed for the spread of the disease which started near the troop's encampment.	After the 2010 earthquake, UN peacekeepers in Haiti are being blamed for spreading a disease that started near their camp.
Hindi: साथ ही संयुक्त राष्ट्र संघ वैश्विक तापवृद्धि (ग्लोबल वार्मिंग) से प्रभावित देशों को इसके प्रभावों से निपटने में सहायता करने के लिए एक निधि को एकत्र करने की आशा करता है। = English: The U.N. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts.	The strain of bird flu lethal to humans, H5N1, has been confirmed to have infected a dead wild duck, found on Monday, in marshland near Lyon in the east of France.	H5N1, the deadly bird flu that has been confirmed to affect humans, was found Monday in a marshland near the eastern city of Lyon.
Hindi: जब आप पहले के समय में विदेश गए थे, तो लोग तब ये जानकर धैर्य और समझ रखते थे कि यात्रियों को नए देश में उसके हिसाब से ढलना पड़ता है. = English: When you went abroad at first, people were probably patient and understanding, knowing that travellers in a new country need to adapt.	On some routes, the larger companies have their own planes, but for other routes and smaller firms there was a problem.	On select routes, big companies have their own planes, but on other routes and for smaller firms, this is a problem.
Hindi: इनविजिबल टीम वह प्रबंधन टीम है, जिस पर प्रत्येक सदस्य रिपोर्ट करते हैं. इनविजिबल टीम प्रत्येक सदस्य के लिए मानक निर्धारित करती है. = English: The “invisible team” is the management team to which each of the members report. The invisible team sets the standards for each member.	Workplace harmony is crucial, emphasizing group effort rather than praising individual accomplishments.	The workplace harmony is important, which emphasizes on collective effort rather than individual achievements.
Hindi: 2002 में गोमा को न्यिरगोंगो ज्वालामुखी ने लावा द्वारा नष्ट कर दिया गया था, जिसने शहर की अधिकांश सड़कों, विशेष रूप से शहर के बीच के भाग को दफन कर दिया था। = English: In 2002 Goma was destroyed by lava from the Nyiragongo volcano which buried most of the town’s streets, particularly the town centre.	All I say to people is you treat us the way we treat you.	My message to all people is that you treat us the way we treat you.
Hindi: नई तकनीकियों के बढ़ने से हम मस्तिष्क की रचना और प्रक्रियाओं को देखकर जाँच कर सकते हैं जो पहले कभी नहीं देखी गई. = English: The rise of new technologies allows us to see and investigate brain structures and processes never seen before.	Appropriate use of blogs "can empower students to become more analytical and critical; through actively responding to Internet materials, students can define their positions in the context of others' writings as well as outline their own perspectives on particular issues (Oravec, 2002).	Blogs can be used to empower students to be more analytical and critical; by actively responding to Internet materials, students can define their own situations in relation to others’ writings, and can articulate their own perspectives on a particular topic (Orovik, 2002).
Hindi: जिस सड़क पर दुर्घटना हुई उसे कुछ समय के लिए बंद कर दिया गया था, जबकि आपाताकालीन सेवाओं ने ड्राइवर को लाल रंग की Audi TT से निकाल दिया था. = English: The road where the crash happened was temporarily closed while emergency services freed the driver from the red Audi TT.	British pounds will generally be accepted anywhere in the islands and within Stanley credit cards and United States dollars are also often accepted.	British pounds are usually accepted on the islands and Stanley credit cards and US dollars are often accepted.
Hindi: जिस कारण, दो मछली की प्रजातियाँ विलुप्त हो गई हैं और अन्य दो लुप्तप्राय हो गई हैं, जिसमें हंपबैक चूब भी शामिल है. = English: As a result, two fish species have become extinct, and two others have become endangered, including the humpback chub.	For the Springboks, it ended a five-match losing streak.	For the Springboks, it ended a five-match losing streak.
Hindi: मोंटेवीडियो सबट्रॉपिक्स में है; गर्मियों के महीनों में, + 30° C से अधिक तापमान रहना आम बात है. = English: Montevideo is in the subtropics; in the summer months, temperatures above +30°C are common.	The Chaco region was home to other groups of indigenous tribes such as the Guaycurú and Payaguá, who survived by hunting, gathering and fishing.	The Chaco region was home to the Guaycuru and Paguá indigenous groups, who hunted, gathered, and fished to make a living.
Hindi: तमाकी ड्राइव समुद्री तट वाटेमाटा हार्बर पर, सेंट्रल ऑकलैंड में मिशन बे और सेंट हेलियर्स के महंगे उपनगरों में मौजूद हैं. = English: Tamaki Drive beaches are on the Waitemata Harbour, in the upmarket suburbs of Mission Bay and St Heliers in Central Auckland.	Travelling by plane can be a scary experience for people of all ages and backgrounds, particularly if they've not flown before or have experienced a traumatic event.	For all ages and backgrounds, flying can be a scary experience. Especially if they have never flown before or have had a painful experience on a flight.
Hindi: अंततः, हजारों या लाखों साल बाद, दोनों आबादियाँ इतनी अलग दिखाई देंगी कि उन्हें एक ही प्रजाति नहीं कहा जा सकेगा. = English: Eventually, after thousands or even millions of years, the two populations will look so different that they can't be called the same species.	One of the main Christian tenets is that wealth should be used to alleviate suffering and poverty and that the monetary funds of the church are there specifically for that reason.	One of the main Christian doctrines is that money should be used to alleviate suffering and poverty, and the church's monetary funds are especially for that purpose.
Hindi: हज़ारों साल पहले, एरिस्टार्चस नामक एक व्यक्ति ने कहा था कि सौर मंडल सूर्य के चारों ओर घूमता है। = English: Thousands of years ago, a man called Aristarchus said that the Solar System moved around the Sun.	Ancient cultures and tribes began to keep them for easy access to milk, hair, meat, and skins.	Ancient cultures and tribes began to keep milk, hair, meat and leather within easy reach.
Hindi: द्वीप समूहों और झीलों में आपको अनिवार्य रूप से याट की ज़रूरत नहीं होती है. = English: In the archipelagos and lakes you do not necessarily need a yacht.	Poland's men's visually impaired skier Maciej Krezel and guide Anna Ogarzynska finished thirteenth in the Super-G. South Korea's Jong Seork Park finished twenty-fourth in the men's sitting Super-G.	Polish blind man, Maciej Krzysztof and his guide Anna Ogarzinska, won the 13th place in the super-G competition. In addition, South Korea's Jong Sae Park won the 24th place in this competition.
Hindi: चेतावनी हटा लिए जाने के बावजूद हवाई समुद्र तट या उसके निकट स्थित चौदह विद्यालय बुधवार को बंद कर दिए गए। = English: Fourteen schools in Hawaii located on or near coastlines were closed all of Wednesday despite the warnings being lifted.	The smaller the Rossby number, the less active the star with respect to magnetic reversals.	The smaller the Rossby number, the less active the star will be in relation to magnetic reversals.
Hindi: टूर्नामेंटों की खबरों के लिए और पोलो मैचों के लिए टिकट खरीदने के लिए, एसोसिएशन अर्जेंटीना दे पोलो को देखें। = English: For news on tournaments and where to buy tickets for polo matches, check Asociacion Argentina de Polo.	This is just like symptomatic treatment in many cases. However, if we do not only want a temporary solution, then we should find the root of the problems, and we should deactivate them.	This is often a symptomatic treatment. However, if we do not want to be satisfied with a temporary solution, we should find the roots of the problems and neutralize them.
Hindi: स्कीइंग मार्ग को एक हाईकिंग (लंबी पैदल यात्रा) मार्ग जैसा ही सोचें। = English: Think of the skiing route as of a similar hiking route.	There are a lot of social and political effects such as the use of metric system, a shift from absolutism to republicanism, nationalism and the belief the country belongs to the people not to one sole ruler.	The use of the metric system, the transition from absolutism to republicanism, the transition from nationalism to nationalism, and the country's trust in people rather than in a single ruler, have a very high social and political impact.
Hindi: एक साल के दौरान, एक संक्रमित व्यक्ति 10 से 15 करीबी संपर्कों को संक्रमित कर सकता है. = English: In one year's time, an infected person may infect 10 to 15 close contacts.	Visibility may also be restricted by falling or blowing snow or by condensation or ice on vehicle windows.	Snowfall or the freezing of vehicle windows can also reduce visibility.
Hindi: उन्होंने पाया कि सूर्य अन्य सितारों के समान मूल सिद्धांतों पर संचालित होता है: मंडल के सभी सितारों की गतिविधि उनके प्रकाश, उनके परिक्रमण द्वारा संचालित थी, किसी और कारण से नहीं। = English: They found the Sun operated on the same basic principles as other stars: The activity of all stars in the system was found to be driven by their luminosity, their rotation, and nothing else.	Advisories are merely a brief summary of the political situation in one country.	An advisory is a mere small description of the political situation in any country.
Hindi: उनकी टीम के साथी फ़र्नांडो अलोंसो अधिकांश दौड़ में आगे थे, लेकिन अपने अल्प-विराम के ठीक बाद इसे रोक दिया, शायद इसलिए क्योंकि सामने वाला पहिया बुरी तरह से सिकुड़ गया था. = English: His teammate Fernando Alonso was in the lead for most of the race, but ended it right after his pit-stop, probably because a badly tucked right front wheel.	One was sent to George Washington on July 6, who had it read to his troops in New York on July 9. A copy reached London on August 10.	One of them was sent to George Washington on 6 July, who read it to his army on 9 July in New York. A copy reached London on 10 August.
Hindi: अमेरिकी जिमनास्टिक्स, संयुक्त राज्य ओलंपिक समिति के पत्र का समर्थन करता है. साथ ही, सभी एथलीटों को एक सुरक्षित माहौल देने के लिए, ओलंपिक परिवार के होने की अहमियत स्वीकार करता है. = English: USA Gymnastics supports the United States Olympic Committee's letter and accepts the absolute need of the Olympic family to promote a safe environment for all of our athletes.	Eventually, wooden wheels were replaced by iron wheels. In 1767, the first full-iron rails were introduced.	Finally, iron wheels replaced wooden wheels. In 1767, the first completely iron railway was introduced.
Hindi: यह बीमारी सूअरों के कारण होती है, जो बाद में मच्छरों के माध्यम से मनुष्यों में आती है। = English: The disease is carried by pigs, which then migrates to humans through mosquitos.	These are sometimes-crowded family beaches with a good range of shops lining the shore. Swimming is safe.	These are sometimes crowded family beaches with a good range of shops along the shore. Swimming is safe.
Hindi: यदि आपने स्थगन की घोषणा से पहले 2020 के लिए अपनी उड़ानें और रहने के स्थान बुक किए थे, तो यह आपके लिए एक मुश्किल स्थिति हो सकती है। = English: If you booked your flights and accommodation for 2020 before the postponement was announced, you may have a tricky situation.	Japanese work culture is more hierarchical and formal that what Westerners may be used to.	Japanese work culture is more hierarchical and formal than Western culture.
Hindi: यह डिवाइस को हवा में मूव करके खिलाड़ियों को एक्शन और मूवमेंट कंट्रोल करने की अनुमति देगा. = English: This will allow players to control actions and movements in video games by moving the device through the air.	When the fighting ceased after the wounded were transported to the hospital, about 40 of the other remaining inmates stayed in the yard and refused to return to their cells.	When the wounded were taken to the hospital after the fighting stopped, about 40 other prisoners refused to return to their cells in the yard and stayed there.
Hindi: गैलापागोस में मनुष्य के आगमन के बाद से, कई स्तनधारी का आगमन हुआ है जिसमें बकरियाँ, घोड़े, गाय, चूहे, बिल्लियाँ और कुत्ते शामिल हैं. = English: Since the arrival of man to the Galapagos, many mammals have been introduced including goats, horses, cows, rats, cats and dogs.	No matter how docile they may look, bison, elk, moose, bears, and nearly all large animals can attack.	It does not matter how meek they look, bison, elk, moose, bears, and nearly all animals can attack.
Hindi: कृपया इस जगह का सम्मान करें, अपने व्यवहार में गंभीरता रखें और इससे वही सम्मान दें जिसकी यह हकदार है. होलोकास्ट या नाज़ी लोगों के बारे में मज़ाक न करें. = English: Please treat the site with all of the dignity, solemnity and respect it deserves. Do not make jokes about the Holocaust or Nazis.	Sort of like rolling a heavy cart up a hill. Splitting the nucleus up again then releases some of that energy.	Like rolling a heavy vehicle up a mountain. Splitting the nucleus and extracting some energy from it.
Hindi: किसी व्यक्ति में जितनी आंतरिक शांति होती है वह उसके शरीर और आत्मा में मौजूद तनाव की मात्रा के विपरीत सहसंबंधित होती है. = English: The amount of inner peace a person possesses correlates oppositely to the amount of tension in one’s body and spirit.	Downhill skiing as a sport goes back to at least the 17th century, and in 1861 the first recreational ski club was opened by Norwegians in Australia.	Downhill skiing as a sport began at least in the 17th century and the first recreational ski club was opened in 1861 in Australia by Norwegians.
Hindi: लॉन्च के लगभग 3 मिनट बाद, एक ऑन-बोर्ड कैमरा ने ईंधन टैंक से इन्सुलेशन फ़ोम के कई टुकड़े दिखाए. = English: Around 3 minutes into the launch, an on-board camera showed numerous pieces of insulation foam break away from the fuel tank.	The Report opens with plea for open debate and the formation of a consensus in the United States about the policy towards the Middle East.	The report opens with a petition calling for open debate and a consensus on U.S. Middle East policy.
Hindi: उनमें से 34 फ़ीसदी लोगों ने मतदान में यह मत साझा करते हुए इच्छा जताई, कि वे क्वीन एलिज़ाबेथ द्वितीय को ऑस्ट्रेलिया की आखिरी रानी बनाना चाहते हैं. = English: 34 per cent of those in the poll share this view, wanting Queen Elizabeth II to be Australia's last monarch.	While this is often only an inaccurate stereotype, the best way to get along in Paris still is to be on your best behavior, acting like someone who is "bien élevé" (well brought up). It will make getting about considerably easier.	Although this is often only a misguided conservative assumption, the best way to blend in Paris is still to act like a well-bred person. This will make it much easier to blend in.
Hindi: सभी गुफाओं, जिनका नाम “सात बहनें” रखा गया, में घुसने की जगह का डायमीटर कम से कम 100 से 250 मीटर (328 से 820 फ़ीट) है. = English: All of the cave entrances, which were named "The Seven Sisters", are at least 100 to 250 meters (328 to 820 feet) in diameter.	The winter can be deceptively chilly: temperatures rarely go below freezing, but the wind and humidity combine to make it feel colder than what the thermometer says.	Winter can be deceptively cold: temperatures rarely get below freezing, but the combination of wind and humidity can make the thermometer feel colder than the actual temperature.
Hindi: पिरामिडों पर दृश्य प्रदर्शित किए जाते हैं और विभिन्न पिरामिड दिखाये जाते हैं = English: The scenes are displayed on the pyramids and the different pyramids are lit up.	You can use boda-boda (motorcycle taxi) to get around Goma. The normal (local) price is ~500 Congolese Francs for the short ride.	You can hire a boda-boda (motorcycle taxi) to go around Goma. A short ride usually costs around 500 Congolese francs.
Hindi: हाथ से बने प्रोडक्ट एंटीक के रूप में परिभाषित किए जा सकते हैं. हालाँकि वे बड़े पैमाने पर बनाए जाने वाले सामानों के मुकाबले कम पुराने होते हैं. = English: Handicraft products might be defined as antiques, though they are younger than similar mass-produced goods.	Potro received treatment to his shoulder at this point but managed to return to the game.	Potro had his shoulder treated at this point but returned to the game and succeeded.
Hindi: अरब के लोग इस धरती पर इस्लाम भी लेकर आए, और उसे कोमोरोस और मेयोटे में बड़े पैमाने पर फैलाया. = English: The Arabs also brought Islam to the lands, and it took in a big way in the Comoros and Mayotte.	When you call someone who is thousands of miles away, you are using a satellite.	To call someone thousands of miles away, you use a satellite.
Hindi: सर्वे के नतीजे के मुताबिक, सर्वे में शामिल 29 प्रतिशत लोगों का मानना है कि ऑस्ट्रेलिया को जल्द से जल्द एक गणतंत्र बन जाना चाहिए, जबकि 31 प्रतिशत लोगों का मानना है कि ऑस्ट्रेलिया को कभी भी गणतंत्र नहीं बनना चाहिए. = English: At the extremes of the poll, 29 per cent of those surveyed believe Australia should become a republic as soon as possible, while 31 per cent believe Australia should never become a republic.	The final score was a one-point victory, 21 to 20, ending the All Blacks' 15 game winning streak.	The final score was a one-point win, 21 to 20, ending the All Blacks 15-game winning streak.
Hindi: कुछ लोगों ये सोचते थे की कि वह सही था लेकिन बहुत से लोग इसके विपरीत मानते थे; की सौर मंडल सूर्य (और यहां तक कि अन्य सितारों) सहित पृथ्वी के चारों और चक्कर लगता था । = English: Some people thought he was right but many people believed the opposite; that the Solar System moved around the Earth, including the Sun (and even the other stars).	Huhne has resigned and he will be replaced in the Cabinet by Ed Davey MP. Norman Lamb MP is expected to take the Business Minister job Davey is vacating.	Hunt has resigned. His place will be taken by MP Edward Davey. MP Norman Lamb is expected to become the new Minister for Trade. This post has become vacant because Davey has joined the Cabinet.
Hindi: जापान के पास, द्वीपों के समूह होने के कारण, जापान को भौगोलिक रूप से अक्सर “द्वीपसमूह” के रूप में संदर्भित किया जाता है। = English: Due to the cluster/group of islands Japan has, Japan is often referred to, on a geographical stance, as an "archipelago"	The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	Both satellites, weighing more than 1000 pounds and travelling at a speed of 17,500 miles per hour, collided with each other at an altitude of 491 miles from the earth.
Hindi: नतीजा आने के बाद गिंगरिच ने सेंटोरम की तारीफ की, लेकिन रोमनी की निंदा की जिनकी ओर से आयोवा में गिंगरिच के खिलाफ दुष्प्रचार किया गया था. = English: After the results came in, Gingrich lauded Santorum, but had tough words for Romney, on whose behalf negative campaign advertisements were aired in Iowa against Gingrich.	In 1956 Słania moved to Sweden, where three years later he began work for the Swedish Post Office and became their chief engraver.	In 1956, Solina moved to Sweden, where three years later she started working for the Swedish postal service and became its main painter.
Hindi: सभी उम्र और पृष्ठभूमि वाले लोगों के लिए विमान में यात्रा करना एक डरावना अनुभव हो सकता है. खास कर, अगर उन्होंने पहले कभी हवाई यात्रा न की हो या फिर हवाई यात्रा के दौरान किसी दर्दनाक घटना का सामना करना पड़ा हो. = English: Travelling by plane can be a scary experience for people of all ages and backgrounds, particularly if they've not flown before or have experienced a traumatic event.	At the extremes of the poll, 29 per cent of those surveyed believe Australia should become a republic as soon as possible, while 31 per cent believe Australia should never become a republic.	The survey results show that 29 percent of those surveyed believe Australia should become a republic as soon as possible, while 31 percent believe Australia should never become a republic.
Hindi: हालाँकि, जंगल का अर्थ केवल मैंग्रोव दलदल नहीं हैं - वे कुछ अंतिम शक्तिशाली जंगलों में से हैं, जो कभी गंगा पठार को कवर करते थे। = English: The forests aren't just mangrove swamps though — they include some of the last remaining stands of the mighty jungles which once covered the Gangetic plain.	I don't know if you realize it or not, but most of the goods from Central America came into this country duty-free.	I don't know if you noticed this but, most products imported from Central America are not taxed at all.
Hindi: हम USOC के इस कथन से सहमत हैं कि हमारे एथलीटों और क्लबों और उनके खेल, हमारे संगठन के भीतर सार्थक बदलाव के साथ आगे बढ़ कर बेहतर सेवा की जा सकती है ना की विप्रमाणन से | = English: We agree with the USOC's statement that the interests of our athletes and clubs, and their sport, may be better served by moving forward with meaningful change within our organization, rather than decertification.	Muhammad was deeply interested in matters beyond this mundane life. He used to frequent a cave that became known as “Hira‘” on the Mountain of “Noor” (light) for contemplation.	Muhammad had a deep interest in matters beyond this world. He often used a cave for meditation, known as the "Hira" (light) Mountain, on the "Nur" (light) Mountain.
Hindi: उन्होंने लोकप्रिय हाइकिंग और साइक्लिंग ट्रैल्स के लिए रूट्स भी तय किए. = English: They also define routes for popular hiking and cycling trails.	Generally speaking, two behaviors can emerge as managers begin to lead their former peers. One end of the spectrum is trying to remain “one of the guys” (or gals).	In plain words, when managers start leading their former colleagues, two kinds of behaviour emerge. On one end of the spectrum is the attempt to “be one of the boys” (or girls). On the other end is the attempt to be the “boss”.
Hindi: स्फिंक्स को एक लंबी कहानी की पृष्ठभूमि और कथाकार के रूप में स्थापित किया गया है। = English: The Sphinx is set as the backdrop and the narrator of a long story.	Before an organization can be innovative, leadership must create a culture of innovation as well as shared knowledge and organizational learning.	Before any organization can be innovative, leadership must create an innovative culture, as well as shared knowledge and organizational learning.
Hindi: उपसंस्कृति समान विचारधारा वाले व्यक्तियों को साथ लाती है जो सामाजिक मानकों में अपने आप को पिछड़ा हुआ महसूस करते हैं और उन्हें अपनी पहचान की भावना विकसित करने की अनुमति देते हैं। = English: Subcultures bring together like-minded individuals who feel neglected by societal standards and allow them to develop a sense of identity.	Severe weather can occur anywhere in the world, and there are different types of it, which can depend on geography, topography, and atmospheric conditions.	Serious weather can occur anywhere in the world, and it can take different forms depending on the geography, topography and atmospheric conditions.
Hindi: अटलांटिक तूफ़ान मौसम का दसवाँ तूफ़ान, उपोष्णकटिबंधीय तूफ़ान जेरी, आज अटलांटिक महासागर में बना है. = English: The tenth named storm of the Atlantic Hurricane season, Subtropical Storm Jerry, formed in the Atlantic Ocean today.	Same goes for the military because instead of army rankings being based on class they were now based on cailaber.	This is also true of the army because the army's rankings are based on merit rather than on caste.
Hindi: लोग यह अनुमान नहीं लगा सकते हैं कि घर लौटने वाले यात्रियों के लिए धैर्य और समझ भी आवश्यक है. = English: People may not anticipate that patience and understanding are also necessary for travellers returning home.	The central authority of the church had been in Rome for over a thousand years and this concentration of power and money led many to question whether this tenet was being met.	The central authority of the church in Rome has been for a thousand years and the concentration of power and money in one place has raised many questions about whether this principle is being fulfilled or not.
Hindi: कांग्रेस के पास टैक्स लगाने का कोई अधिकार नहीं था, क्योंकि वहाँ कोई राष्ट्रीय कार्यकारी या न्यायपालिका नहीं थी. यह राज्य के अधिकारियों पर निर्भर थे, जो अक्सर अपने सभी कार्यों को लागू करने में सहयोगी नहीं थे. = English: Congress lacked any power to impose taxes, and, because there was no national executive or judiciary, it relied on state authorities, who were often uncooperative, to enforce all its acts.	Sharks do exist, however they rarely attack humans. Most sharks are scared of humans and would swim away.	Sharks exist, though they rarely attack humans. Most sharks are afraid of humans and swim away.
Hindi: लोगों की भीड़ ने राजा और रानी को अपनी गाड़ी की खिड़की खोलने के लिए मजबूर किया. = English: The mob of people forced the King And Queen to have their carriage windows wide open.	It has brought us the train, the car, and many other transportation devices.	It has given us trains, cars and many other means of transportation.
Hindi: अपने दर्द को दूर करने के लिए वे ज़रूरी दवाओं को लेने में असमर्थ हो गए क्योंकि वे दवाइयाँ खेलों में प्रतिबंधित थीं. = English: He has been unable to take the drugs needed to overcome his pain as they are banned from the Games.	Field trips are a large part of any classroom. Quite often a teacher would love to take her students places to which a bus trip is not an option.	Field trips are an important part of any classroom. Teachers often prefer to take their students to places where the bus trip is not an option.
Hindi: लेकिन भूमध्य रेखा के कुछ ही डिग्री उत्तर में मौजूद “अत्यधिक उष्णकटिबंध” में होने की वजह से, आपको गर्मी (हमेशा) और तेज़ धूप (जब आसमान साफ़ हो, जो कि ज़्यादातर होता है) का सामना करना पड़ेगा. = English: But being placed in the "high tropics" just a few degrees north of equator you will need to deal with both heat (always) and strong sun (when the sky is clear, more rarely).	Usually you always here the sound of tourists and vendors. The story of the sound and light is just like a story book.	You will usually hear the voices of tourists and sellers. The sound and light show is like a story book.
Hindi: यह रिपोर्ट इराक के प्रति प्रशासन की वर्तमान नीति के लगभग सभी पहलुओं के प्रति बेहद आलोचनात्मक है और यह इसकी दिशा में तत्काल परिवर्तन का आग्रह करती है। = English: The Report is highly critical of almost every aspect of the present policy of the Executive towards Iraq and it urges an immediate change of direction.	The cabbage juice changes color depending on how acidic or basic (alkaline) the chemical is.	The juice of cabbage changes colour according to its acid or basic (alkaline) nature.
Hindi: उनमें से एक जॉर्ज वाशिंगटन को 6 जुलाई को भेजा गया, जिसने कि इसको अपनी सेना के लिए न्यूयॉर्क में 9 जुलाई को पढ़ा। उसकी एक कॉपी 10 अगस्त को लंदन पहुंची। = English: One was sent to George Washington on July 6, who had it read to his troops in New York on July 9. A copy reached London on August 10.	Since students are often the most critical audience, the blog writer begins to strive to improve writing to avoid criticism.	Since students are often the most critical audience, the blogger tries to avoid criticism or review by improving his/her writing.
Hindi: यह उपग्रह-आधारित प्रौद्योगिकी का उपयोग करता है, जो पुराने ज़मीनी-रडार-आधारित तकनीक के विपरीत है, जिससे हवाई यातायात नियंत्रकों को अधिक सटीकता के साथ विमान को चलाने और पायलटों को अधिक सटीक जानकारी देने में मदद मिलती है. = English: It uses satellite-based technology as opposed to older ground-radar-based technology to allow air traffic controllers to pinpoint aircraft with greater precision and give pilots more accurate information.	There are many beaches, due to Auckland's straddling of two harbours. The most popular ones are in three areas.	Because of its two ports spread out over the city, there are many beaches. The most popular beaches are in three areas.
Hindi: ऑकलैंड के दो बंदरगाहों में फैले होने की वजह से, यहां कई समुद्री तट हैं. सबसे लोकप्रिय समुद्री तट तीन इलाकों में हैं. = English: There are many beaches, due to Auckland's straddling of two harbours. The most popular ones are in three areas.	Your local telephone service provider should be able to give more information about connecting to this service.	Be aware that your local telephone service provider may have more information on how to connect to this service.
Hindi: परिवहन प्रणाली ऐसी शिकायतों को क्यों बढ़ावा देती है? वे हर दिन क्यों पिछड़ जाते हैं? क्या परिवहन इंजीनियर काबिल नहीं हैं? या इस प्रणाली में कोई और बड़ी गड़बड़ी है? = English: Why do transportation systems engender such complaints, why do they fail on a daily basis? Are transportation engineers just incompetent? Or is something more fundamental going on?	Dr. Ehud Ur, professor of medicine at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia and chair of the clinical and scientific division of the Canadian Diabetes Association cautioned that the research is still in its early days.	Dr. Euan Ur, a professor of medicine at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, and head of the clinical and scientific department of the Canadian Diabetes Association, cautioned that the research is still in its early days.
Hindi: दो लोकप्रिय विषय-वस्तु सिद्धांत हैं मास्लो का आवश्यकताओं का पदानुक्रम सिद्धांत और हर्ट्ज़बर्ग का दो तथ्यों वाला सिद्धांत. = English: Two popular content theories are Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs Theory and Hertzberg's Two Factor Theory.	Popular sports include football, basketball, volleyball, water-polo, fencing, rugby, cycling, ice hockey, roller hockey and F1 motor racing.	Popular games include football, basketball, volleyball, water polo, fencing, rugby, cycling, ice hockey, roller hockey and Formula 1 motor racing.
Hindi: नेक्स्टजेन प्रणाली बारे में एफएए का दावा है कि इससे विमान को छोटे मार्गों से उड़ाना और हर साल लाखों गैलन ईंधन बचाना संभव होगा और इससे कार्बन उत्सर्जन में भी कमी आएगी। = English: NextGen is a system the FAA claims would allow aircraft to fly shorter routes and save millions of gallons of fuel each year and cut carbon emissions.	People now write messages on computer screens, never having to come close to a sharpener.	People now write messages on computer screens, no longer needing a sharpener.
Hindi: फ्लूक ने लिखा है कि कुछ लोगों ने महिलाओं द्वारा महिलाओं के स्वास्थ्य के बारे में बुलवाने का प्रयास किया जिसमें वे असफल रहे। = English: Fluke wrote that the efforts by some to drown out women from speaking out about women’s health were unsuccessful.	The Northern Marianas emergency management office said that there were no damages reported in the nation.	The North American Measles Emergency Management Office said there were no reports of damage from the nation.
Hindi: निश्चित रूप से, फिलिपिनो लोगों के शोषण से प्राप्त सुपरफास्टिट्स अमेरिकी साम्राज्यवाद के बुनियादी लाभ का गठन करेंगे। = English: Of course, the superprofits derived from the protracted exploitation of the Filipino people would constitute the basic gains of U.S. imperialism.	The forests aren't just mangrove swamps though — they include some of the last remaining stands of the mighty jungles which once covered the Gangetic plain.	Of course, the jungle does not only mean mangrove swamps - they are some of the last powerful jungles that once covered the Gangetic plain.
Hindi: प्रकोप ने भारत सरकार को गंभीर रूप से प्रभावित क्षेत्रों में सुअर पकड़ने वालों की तैनाती, हज़ारों मच्छरदानी वितरित करने और कीटनाशकों के छिड़काव जैसे उपाय करने के लिए मजबूर कर दिया है. = English: The outbreak has prompted the Indian government to undertake such measures as deployment of pig catchers in seriously affected areas, distributing thousands of mosquito curtains and spraying pesticides.	Local authorities are warning residents in the vicinity of the plant to stay indoors, turn off air-conditioners and not to drink tap water.	Local authorities are warning residents in the area around the plant to stay indoors, turn off air-conditioners and not drink tap water.
Hindi: फ़ॉकलैंड की आधिकारिक मुद्रा फ़ॉकलैंड पाउंड (एफकेएपी) है. इसे एक ब्रिटिश पाउंड (जीबीपी) के बराबर तय किया गया है. = English: The official Falklands currency is the Falkland pound (FKP) whose value is set equivalent to that of one British pound (GBP).	No major damage or injuries have been reported in Tonga, but power was temporarily lost, which reportedly prevented Tongan authorities from receiving the tsunami warning issued by the PTWC.	No major damage or injuries have been reported from Tonga, but power was temporarily out, which allegedly prevented the Tongan authorities from receiving the PTWC's tsunami warning.
Hindi: मध्य क्रम के बल्लेबाज सचिन तेंदुलकर और राहुल द्रविड़ ने अच्छा प्रदर्शन किया और शतकीय साझेदारी बनाई. = English: Middle order batsmen, Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid, performed well and made a hundred-run partnership.	If they sent things by air freight, on some routes it may have taken days to get through unloading and customs.	If they send things by air freight, then some routes may take some days to unload and customs.
Hindi: अगर आप सर्दियों में उत्तरी बाटलिक को पार करते हैं, तो आपको केबिन स्थान की जांच करनी होगी , क्योंकि क्योंकि जो लोग ज्यादा प्रभावित है उन्हें बर्फ से गुजरने पर काफी भयानक शोर महसूस होगा । = English: If crossing the Northern Baltic in winter, check the cabin location, as going through ice causes quite horrible noise for those most affected.	In 1994, this conflict led to the creation of the self-proclaimed Transnistria Republic in eastern Moldova, which has its own government and currency but is not recognised by any UN member country.	In 1994, the conflict led to the declaration of the Transnistria Republic in eastern Moldova, with its own government and currency, but not recognized by any member state of the United Nations.
Hindi: अमेज़न धरती की सबसे चौड़ी नदी भी है, जो कभी-कभी छह मील जितनी चौड़ी हो जाती है. = English: The Amazon is also the widest river on Earth, at times six miles wide.	The photographers later took the place of an aged lady as she needed the lavatory. Mendoza was gunned down.	Photographers later took over the role of an elderly woman, as she had to go to the toilet. Mendosa was shot dead.
Hindi: स्थानीय अधिकारी संयंत्र के आस-पास के क्षेत्र में निवासियों को चेतावनी दे रहे हैं कि वे घर के अंदर रहें, एयर-कंडीशनर बंद कर दें और नल का पानी न पिएँ. = English: Local authorities are warning residents in the vicinity of the plant to stay indoors, turn off air-conditioners and not to drink tap water.	Last week, METI announced that Apple had informed it of 34 additional overheating incidents, which the company called "non-serious."	Last week, METI announced that Apple had 34 overheating cases, which the company had not taken seriously.
Hindi: कांग्रेस के पास टैक्स लगाने का कोई अधिकार नहीं था, क्योंकि वहाँ कोई राष्ट्रीय कार्यकारी या न्यायपालिका नहीं थी. यह राज्य के अधिकारियों पर निर्भर थे, जो अक्सर अपने सभी कार्यों को लागू करने में सहयोगी नहीं थे. = English: Congress lacked any power to impose taxes, and, because there was no national executive or judiciary, it relied on state authorities, who were often uncooperative, to enforce all its acts.	The much-abused and often-ridiculed rule of thirds is a simple guideline creating dynamism while keeping a measure of order in an image.	The third rule, which is often abused and ridiculed, is a simple guideline that measures order in a picture by the amount of motion it contains.
Hindi: लॉन्च के लगभग 3 मिनट बाद, एक ऑन-बोर्ड कैमरा ने ईंधन टैंक से इन्सुलेशन फ़ोम के कई टुकड़े दिखाए. = English: Around 3 minutes into the launch, an on-board camera showed numerous pieces of insulation foam break away from the fuel tank.	High winds, hail, excessive precipitation, and wildfires are forms and effects of severe weather, as are thunderstorms, tornadoes, waterspouts, and cyclones.	Storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, heavy rain, and forest fires are part of the intense weather and its effects.
Hindi: हांगकांग द्वीप हांगकांग के क्षेत्र को उसका नाम देता है और यह वह स्थान है जिसे कई पर्यटक मुख्य केंद्र बिंदु मानते हैं। = English: Hong Kong Island gives the territory of Hong Kong its name and is the place that many tourists regard as the main focus.	No extra transport is being put on and overground trains will not stop at Wembley, and car parking and park-and-ride facilities are unavailable at the ground.	No additional transport is being provided and no underground trains will stop at Wembley, and there will be no car parking or park and ride facilities on the ground.
Hindi: सभी लोगों से मेरा बस यही कहना है की आप हमारे साथ वैसा ही व्यवहार करें जैसा हम आपसे करते हैं | = English: All I say to people is you treat us the way we treat you.	We can start living more friendly to the environment, we can join to the environmental movement, and we can even be activists in order to reduce the future suffering in some degree.	We can start living in a more friendly way with the environment, we can join the environmental movement, and we can become environmental activists to save the future from some extent of pain.
Hindi: एक साल के दौरान, एक संक्रमित व्यक्ति 10 से 15 करीबी संपर्कों को संक्रमित कर सकता है. = English: In one year's time, an infected person may infect 10 to 15 close contacts.	All things considered, we should not be surprised if our own ancestors solved their "protein problem" in somewhat the same way that chimps on the savanna do today.	If our ancestors solved their "protein problem" to some extent in the same way as we do today, we should not be surprised, as chimpanzees do today.
Hindi: फिलीपींस के राजधानी मनीला में एक पूर्व फिलिपिनो पुलिसकर्मी ने उनकी बस को अपहरण करके हांगकांग के पर्यटकों को बंधक बना रखा है। = English: A former Filipino policeman has kept Hong Kong tourists hostage by hijacking their bus in Manila, the capital of the Philippines.	Their predecessors, the Australopithecus did not walk upright as habitually.	Their ancestors, Australopithecus, were not habitual bipeds.
Hindi: जावा के व्यंजन अब पूरे द्वीपसमूह में व्यापक रूप से उपलब्ध हैं, जिसमें पारंपरिक व्यंजनों की एक विशेषता है, जावा के व्यंजनों में प्रमुख स्वाद मूंगफली, मिर्च, चीनी (विशेष रूप से जावा की नारियल चीनी) और विभिन्न सुगंधित मसालों का होता है। = English: Now widely available throughout the archipelago, Javanese cuisine features an array of simply seasoned dishes, the predominant flavorings the Javanese favor being peanuts, chillies, sugar (especially Javanese coconut sugar) and various aromatic spices.	The truck driver, who is aged 64, was not injured in the crash.	The 64-year-old truck driver was not injured in the accident.
Hindi: 600 मेगाबिट/सेकंड के अधिकतम थियोरिटीकल थ्रोपुट के साथ 802.11n की गति अपने पहले वाले चालकों से उल्लेखनीय रूप से बहुत तेज़ है. = English: The speeds of 802.11n are substantially faster than that of its predecessors with a maximum theoretical throughput of 600Mbit/s.	Parisians' abrupt exteriors will rapidly evaporate if you display some basic courtesies.	If you show some common courtesy, Parisians will disappear quickly.
Hindi: उनके शोध से पता चला कि अगर हार्मोन को प्रभाव में लाया जाए तो यह बच्चे के भ्रूण के फेफड़ों की परिपक्वता को गति देगा. = English: His research showed that if a hormone was administered it would speed up the baby's foetal lung maturation.	While most of their food would be familiar to us, Romans did have their share of strange or unusual feast items, including wild boar, peacock, snails, and a type of rodent called a dormouse	While most of their dishes will be familiar to us, the Romans included their share of unusual or exotic delicacies, including wild boar, peacocks, snails and a type of gecko called a dromedary.
Hindi: पराग्वे, जिसे पहले “इंडीज का विशाल प्रांत” कहा जाता था उसका जन्म 16वीं शताब्दी में, स्वदेशी समूहों के साथ स्पेनिश विजेताओं की मुठभेड़ की वजह से हुआ था. = English: In the 16th century Paraguay, formerly called "The Giant Province of the Indies", was born as a result of the encounter of Spanish conquerors with the native indigenous groups.	When you went abroad at first, people were probably patient and understanding, knowing that travellers in a new country need to adapt.	When you went abroad in the past, people then had patience and understanding that travelers had to adapt to the new country.
Hindi: सावधान रहें कि कपड़े को बहुत गर्म न होने दें (जो सिकुड़न का कारण बन सकता है, या बहुत गरम होने पर, जल सकता है)। = English: Be careful not to allow fabric to become too hot (which can cause shrinkage, or in extreme cases, scorch).	Some festivals have special camping areas for families with young children.	Some festivals have special areas for families with small children to camp.
Hindi: यदि वे एयर फ़्रेट के ज़रिए चीज़ों को भेजते हैं, तो कुछ रूट्स पर अनलोडिंग करने और कस्टम के लिए कुछ दिन लग सकते हैं. = English: If they sent things by air freight, on some routes it may have taken days to get through unloading and customs.	You can also have alloys that include small amounts of non-metallic elements like carbon.	You can also take mixed metals that contain small amounts of carbon and other non-metallic elements.
Hindi: ज़्यादातर मौतें पानी की धारा के विरुद्ध तैरने से होने वाली थकान की वजह से होती हैं, हो सकता है कि यह नामुमकिन भी हो. = English: Most deaths happen as result of fatigue trying to swim back against the current, which may be impossible.	In Japan, the first cherry blossom parties were hosted by the emperor only for himself and other members of the aristocracy around the Imperial Court.	In Japan, the cherry blossom parties were hosted by the Emperor himself and his close community members only in the Imperial Court.
Hindi: इन द्वीपों में एकमात्र बैंक से धन का आदान-प्रदान किया जा सकता है जो एफआईसी वेस्ट स्टोर के सामने स्टैनले में स्थित है। = English: Money can be exchanged at the only bank in the islands which is located in Stanley across from the FIC West store.	Still, take advice from authorities, obey all signs, and pay close attention to safety warnings.	Please check with authorities, follow all signs and pay attention to all safety warnings.
Hindi: टुकड़ियों के पहुँचने से पहले, 1800 के दशक से हैती का कभी-भी बीमारियों से जुड़ी समस्याओं से सामना नहीं हुआ था. = English: Prior to the arrival of troops, Haiti had not encountered problems related to the disease since the 1800s.	Similarly, by having a Schengen visa, you do not need to apply for visas to each of the Schengen member countries separately, hence saving time, money and paperwork.	Similarly, if you have a Schengen visa, you do not have to apply for a separate visa for each Schengen member country, saving time, money and paperwork.
Hindi: देशभर के लोकप्रिय गायक श्री श्याम के चरणों में भजन या भक्तिगीत पेश करते हैं. = English: Famous singers across the country presented bhajans, or devotional songs, to Shri Shyam's feet.	Its all-pervading power affected everyone from king to commoner.	Its universal power affected everyone from the king to the common man.
Hindi: यह अवधारणा चीन से आई थी जहाँ बेर के फूल पसंदीदा फूल होते थे। = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	In one year's time, an infected person may infect 10 to 15 close contacts.	A person infected with the virus can infect 10 to 15 close contacts in a year.
Hindi: उनकी दूसरी दौड़, विशाल स्लैलम, महिलाओं के समूह में 4: 41.30, 2: 11.60 मिनट के संयुक्त कार्यावधि के साथ पहले स्थान के फ़िनिशर ऑस्ट्रियन क्लाउडिया लोएश की तुलना में और 1: 09.02 मिनट हंगरी के नौवें स्थान के फ़िनिशर ग्नोगी दानी से दसवें स्थान पर धीमी गति से समाप्त हुई. = English: Her other race, the Giant Slalom, saw her finish in tenth in the women's sitting group with a combined run time of 4:41.30, 2:11.60 minutes slower than first place finisher Austrian Claudia Loesch and 1:09.02 minutes slower than the ninth place finisher Gyöngyi Dani of Hungary.	Virtually all computers in use today are based on the manipulation of information which is coded in the form of binary numbers.	All computers today, whether they are used for information processing or for information storage, are based on the manipulation of binary numbers.
Hindi: उसे समुद्री डाकुओं ने लूटा था, तिब्बत में पागल कुत्ते ने हमला किया, नेपाल में शादी से भाग निकला और भारत में गिरफ्तार कर लिया गया। = English: He was robbed by pirates, attacked in Tibet by a rabid dog, escaped marriage in Nepal and was arrested in India.	Unfortunately, studying traffic flow is difficult because driver behavior cannot be predicted with one-hundred percent certainty.	Unfortunately, it is difficult to study traffic flow because the behavior of the driver cannot be predicted with certainty.
Hindi: उन्होंने कहा “कि अब हमारे पास 4 महीने उम्र वाले चूहे हैं जिन्हें मधुमेह नहीं है जो मधुमेह के रोगी थे। ” = English: "We now have 4-month-old mice that are non-diabetic that used to be diabetic," he added.	For example visiting castles in the Loire Valley, the Rhine valley or taking a cruise to interesting cites on the Danube or boating along the Erie Canal.	For example, cruising along the Rhine Valley, visiting the palaces of the Loire Valley or cruising along the Danube and stopping off at interesting places like Donaueschingen or cruising along the Rhine and the Main rivers.
Hindi: एक साक्षात्कार में, उन्होंने कहा कि नया प्रकार “बहुत ज़्यादा मृत्यु दर के कारण बहुत चिंताजनक और ख़तरनाक था”. = English: In an interview, he said the new variant was "very highly troubling and alarming because of the very high fatality rate."	Lion prides act much like packs of wolves or dogs, animals surprisingly similar to lions (but not other big cats) in behavior, and also very deadly to their prey.	A pride of lions is very much like a pack of wolves or dogs, which is a surprising similarity in animal behaviour to lions (but other big cats) and is also very deadly to its prey.
Hindi: ब्लॉग्स का सही इस्तेमाल “स्टूडेंट्स को ज्यादा विश्लेषणात्मक और विवेचनात्मक बनाने के लिए सशक्त बना सकते हैं; इंटरनेट सामग्रियों पर सक्रिय रूप से जवाब देकर, स्टूडेंट्स दूसरों के लेखन के संदर्भ में अपनी स्थितियों को परिभाषित कर सकते हैं. साथ ही किसी खास विषय पर खुद के दृष्टिकोण को ऑनलाइन कर सकते हैं (ओरावेक, 2002). = English: Appropriate use of blogs "can empower students to become more analytical and critical; through actively responding to Internet materials, students can define their positions in the context of others' writings as well as outline their own perspectives on particular issues (Oravec, 2002).	Several Bishkek residents blamed protesters from the south for the lawlessness.	Many Bishkek residents blamed the South for the disorder.
Hindi: एयरलाइन कंपनियाँ अच्छी तरह जानती हैं कि कुछ यात्रियों का एक ऐसा समूह है जो कुछ हद तक तेज़ और सुविधाजनक यात्रा के लिए ज़्यादा किराया चुकाने के लिए तैयार रहते हैं, और कंपनियाँ उसी हिसाब से चार्ज करती हैं. = English: Airlines know well that there is a certain core group of flyers who are willing to pay top dollar for the privilege of getting somewhere fast and in comfort, and charge accordingly.	The Oyapock River Bridge is a cable-stayed bridge. It spans the Oyapock River to link the cities of Oiapoque in Brazil and Saint-Georges de l'Oyapock in French Guiana.	The Oiapoque River Bridge is a cable stayed bridge. It connects the cities of Oiapoque in Brazil and Saint George de Oiapoque in French Guiana across the Oiapoque River.
Hindi: अपने दर्द को दूर करने के लिए वे ज़रूरी दवाओं को लेने में असमर्थ हो गए क्योंकि वे दवाइयाँ खेलों में प्रतिबंधित थीं. = English: He has been unable to take the drugs needed to overcome his pain as they are banned from the Games.	Candidates can send representatives to witness every part of the process. In the evening, votes are counted by volunteers under heavy supervision, following specific procedures.	Candidates can send representatives to watch the entire process. In the evening, volunteers count the votes under strict monitoring.
Hindi: कई मामलों में, विदेश में किसी एक साल के गैप वाले कोर्स में दाखिला लेने से, असल में आपको अपने देश में उच्च शिक्षा वाले किसी कोर्स में दाखिला लेने की संभावना बढ़ जाती है. = English: In many cases, enrolling on a gap-year course abroad can actually improve your chances of moving into higher education back in your home country.	They found the Sun operated on the same basic principles as other stars: The activity of all stars in the system was found to be driven by their luminosity, their rotation, and nothing else.	They found that the sun was governed by the same basic principles as the other stars: all the stars’ activity was driven by their light, their orbits, and nothing else.
Hindi: आम तौर पर, ट्रैवल एजेंट ऐसे पैकेज ऑफ़र करते हैं, जिनमें नाश्ता, हवाई अड्डे आने-जाने की व्यवस्था या हवाई यात्रा की टिकट के साथ-साथ होटल का किराया भी शामिल होता है. = English: Travel agents usually offer packages that include breakfast, transportation arrangements to/from the airport or even combined flight and hotel packages.	While he was working at the hospital Liggins began to investigate premature labor during his spare time.	While working in the hospital, Le Guen began to investigate preterm births in his spare time.
Hindi: हालाँकि विदाई के समय विन्फ़्रे की आँखों में आँसू थे उन्होंने अपने प्रशंसकों को स्पष्ट किया कि वे वापस आएँगी. = English: Although Winfrey was tearful in her farewell, she made it clear to her fans she will be back.	If you find yourself resetting the clock in your sleep, it can be placed on the other side of the room, forcing you to get out of bed to turn it off.	If you find yourself resetting the clock in your sleep, put it on the other side of the room so you have to get out of bed to turn it off.
Hindi: वॉकिंग सफारी (जिसे “बुश वॉक”, “हाइकिंग सफारी” या “पैदल चलना” भी कहा जाता है) में कुछ दिनों या कई दिनों की हाइकिंग शामिल होती है. = English: A walking safari (also called a "bush walk", "hiking safari", or going "footing") consists of hiking, either for a few hours or several days.	Suits are standard business attire, and coworkers call each other by their family names or by job titles.	Suits are standard business attire, and colleagues address each other by their family names or job titles.
Hindi: यह सिद्धांत बताता है कि आकाशगंगा के आसपास का सबसे गहरा काला पदार्थ प्रभामंडल के रूप में स्थित होता है और यह कई छोटे-छोटे कणों से बना होता है. = English: This theory says that most dark matter around a galaxy is located around a galaxy in a kind of halo, and is made of lots of small particles.	German pastries are quite good, and in Bavaria, are quite rich and varied, similar to those of their southern neighbor, Austria.	German pastries are quite good, and in Bavaria, like its southern neighbor, Austria, are quite rich and diverse.
Hindi: डिप्टी इंस्पेक्टर डी के आर्य ने कहा, “हमने स्विस महिला के साथ बलात्कार करने वाले पाँच लोगों को गिरफ्तार किया है और उनसे उस महिला का मोबाइल और लैपटॉप बरामद किया है”. = English: Deputy Inspector General D K Arya said, "We have arrested five persons who raped the Swiss woman and recovered her mobile and laptop".	Many people don't think about them as dinosaurs because they have feathers and can fly.	Their wings and flying ability have led many people to not consider them dinosaurs.
Hindi: वेटिकन सिटी के सभी नागरिक रोमन कैथोलिक हैं. = English: All citizens of Vatican City are Roman Catholic.	"We now have 4-month-old mice that are non-diabetic that used to be diabetic," he added.	He said, “Now we have 4-month-old rats that do not have diabetes, which were diabetic patients.”
Hindi: विकसित देशों में आप शायद ही कभी पानी की गुणवत्ता या पुलों के गिरने की मिलते-जुलते स्तरों वाली शिकायतें सुनते हैं. = English: In developed countries you seldom hear similar levels of complaints about water quality or bridges falling down.	This provides us with a lot of information and material to build simulation models which help us to understand processes in our mind.	This simulation model provides a lot of information and materials to help us understand our mind processes.
Hindi: अटलांटिक तूफ़ान मौसम का दसवाँ तूफ़ान, उपोष्णकटिबंधीय तूफ़ान जेरी, आज अटलांटिक महासागर में बना है. = English: The tenth named storm of the Atlantic Hurricane season, Subtropical Storm Jerry, formed in the Atlantic Ocean today.	The mountains of the Peninsula here merge into the plateau, then re-emerge to form the 360 km chain of the Ellsworth Mountains, bisected by the Minnesota Glacier.	The mountains here come together to form the plateau, then reappear to form the 360 km long chain of the two-parted Ellsworth Mountains cut by the Minnesotta Glacier.
Hindi: स्थानीय नल का पानी पीने के लिए एकदम सुरक्षित है, लेकिन यदि आपको डर है तो बोतल बंद पानी आसानी से मिल जाता है. = English: The local tap water is perfectly safe to drink, but bottled water is easy to find if you are fearful.	Layton had asked for changes to the conservatives' environmental bill during the meeting with the PM, asking for a "thorough and complete rewriting" of the Conservative party's environmental bill.	Lord Lawson had asked the PM to change the Conservative Party's environmental bill during their meeting. Now the Conservative Party's environmental bill is being asked to be "completely rewritten".
Hindi: द्वीपों के बाहर फ़ॉकलैंड की करंसी को बदलना लगभग असंभव है, इसलिए द्वीप छोड़ने से पहले पैसों को बदलवा लें. = English: It is nearly impossible to exchange Falklands currency outside of the islands, so exchange money prior to leaving the islands.	The 25 Dunlap broadsides still known to exist are the oldest surviving copies of the document. The original handwritten copy has not survived.	The 25 Dunlop Broadside is the oldest surviving copy of the document. The original handwritten copy was not preserved.
Hindi: आर्मंड वर्सास ने कहा, मैंने अपनी बहन और उसकी दोस्त को खो दिया, और रास्ते में व्हीलचेयर में दो दिव्यांग लोग थे, और लोग उनपर उछल रहे थे और उन्हें धक्का दे रहे थे”। = English: I lost my sister and her friend, and on my way there were two disabled people in wheelchairs, people just jumping over and pushing them," Armand Versace said.	Historically most farmers were engaged in subsistence agriculture and this is still the case in many developing nations.	Historically, most farmers have been subsistence farmers, and this is still the case in many developing countries.
Hindi: हालाँकि पार्क में कई जानवर इंसानों के देखने के लिए हैं, फिर भी वन्यजीव खूँखार होते हैं और इन्हें न तो कुछ खिलाना चाहिए या न ही परेशान करना चाहिए. = English: Though many of the animals in the park are used to seeing humans, the wildlife is nonetheless wild and should not be fed or disturbed.	Up means you should start at the tip and push the bow, and down means you should start at the frog (which is where your hand is holding the bow) and pull the bow.	The forward means that you should start from the top and push the bow, and the backward means that you should start from the frog (where you hold the bow in your hand) and pull the bow.
Hindi: उत्तरी समुद्री तट, (उत्तर हार्बर जिले में) प्रशांत महासागर में हैं और यह उत्तर में लॉन्ग बे से लेकर दक्षिण में डेवनपोर्ट तक फैला हुआ है. = English: North Shore beaches (in North Harbour district) are on the Pacific Ocean and stretch from Long Bay in the north to Devonport in the south.	A course will normally cover all the issues discussed here in far greater detail, usually with practical experience.	A course will generally cover all the issues discussed here in some detail, with practical experience.
Hindi: यह अवधारणा चीन से आई थी जहाँ बेर के फूल पसंदीदा फूल होते थे। = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	Vatican City's population is around 800. It is the smallest independent country in the world and the country with the lowest population.	The population of Vatican City is about 800. It is the smallest independent nation with the lowest population in the world.
Hindi: ऑकलैंड के दो बंदरगाहों में फैले होने की वजह से, यहां कई समुद्री तट हैं. सबसे लोकप्रिय समुद्री तट तीन इलाकों में हैं. = English: There are many beaches, due to Auckland's straddling of two harbours. The most popular ones are in three areas.	Sharing a field trip virtually is also a great way to reflect a on a trip and share experiences with future classes.	Field trips are a great way to think about and experience travel, and share that experience with future classes.
Hindi: फ़ॉस्टर केयर उन सभी तरह की ज़रूरतों को पूरा करने के लिए होते हैं जो उस घर में नहीं मिल रही थीं जहां से उन्हें लाया गया था. = English: Foster care is supposed to provide all the necessities that were lacking in the home they were previously taken from.	If you have watched the movie National Treasure, you may think a treasure map was written on the back of the Declaration of Independence.	If you have seen the movie National Treasure, you will think that the map of the treasure was written behind the declaration of independence.
Hindi: हर्शे और चेस के परीक्षण का एक प्रमुख सुझाव था कि DNA एक जेनेटिक मटेरियल था. = English: The Hershey and Chase experiment was one of the leading suggestions that DNA was a genetic material.	In fact, it is not easy to find at all even if one knew it existed. Once inside the cave, it is a total isolation.	In fact, finding it once you know it is not at all easy. Once you reach the cave, you are completely alone.
Hindi: अभी दो हफ़्ते पहले ही इस ट्रॉफ़ी को अपने नाम कर चुकी 'ऑल ब्लैक्स' टीम का यह फ़ाइनल मैच था. = English: It was the final match for the All Blacks, who had already won the trophy two weeks ago.	The composition of these crystals matches those found in the urine of affected pets when compared by infrared spectroscopy (FTIR).	When the infrared spectra of these crystals were compared with the affected pet animals' urine crystals, they matched.
Hindi: रॉबिन उथप्पा ने केवल 41 गेंदों में 11 चौकों और 2 छक्कों की मदद से 70 रन बना कर पारी का सर्वोच्च स्कोर बनाया. = English: Robin Uthappa made the innings highest score, 70 runs in just 41 balls by hitting 11 fours and 2 sixes.	Plans for vaccines to be delivered to the historically most affected areas this year were delayed due to lack of funds and low prioritisation relative to other diseases.	The vaccines were delayed due to lack of funds and other diseases being given less priority in comparison to other diseases.
Hindi: यह रिपोर्ट इराक के प्रति प्रशासन की वर्तमान नीति के लगभग सभी पहलुओं के प्रति बेहद आलोचनात्मक है और यह इसकी दिशा में तत्काल परिवर्तन का आग्रह करती है। = English: The Report is highly critical of almost every aspect of the present policy of the Executive towards Iraq and it urges an immediate change of direction.	California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed into law a bill that bans the sale or rental of violent video games to minors.	California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a bill into law which bans the sale or rental of violent video games to minors.
Hindi: किसी भी बच्चे को कभी भी ऐसे वातावरण में नहीं बढ़ना चाहिए जो कि पालन पोषण करने, देखभाल करने वाला और शैक्षणिक न हो, लेकिन वे बढ़ रहे हैं. = English: No child should ever have to grow up in an environment that is not nurturing, caring, and educational, but they do.	Examples of on-site activities include hunting, fishing, photography, bird watching, and visiting parks and studying information about the ecosystem.	Examples of on-site activities include hunting, fishing, photography, bird watching and visiting parks and studying information about the ecosystem.
Hindi: इस नई जगह में अलग-अलग संसाधन और प्रतियोगी हैं, इसलिए नई आबादी को पहले के मुकाबले एक मजबूत प्रतियोगी बनने के लिए अलग-अलग खासियत या बदलाव अपनाने की ज़रूरत होगी. = English: This new environment has different resources and different competitors, so the new population will need different features or adaptations to be a strong competitor than what they had needed before.	These couples may choose to make an adoption plan for their baby.	These couples can choose to adopt a child for their child.
Hindi: हालांकि तीन लोग घर के अन्दर थे फिर भी जब कार टकराई तब किसी को भी चोट नहीं आई। = English: Although three people were inside the house when the car impacted it, none of them were hurt.	Like some other experts, he is skeptical about whether diabetes can be cured, noting that these findings have no relevance to people who already have Type 1 diabetes.	Like other experts, they are sceptical about whether diabetes can be cured, given that these findings have no relevance for people who already have type 1 diabetes.
Hindi: हलडारश्वीक  गाँव से पास के एस्टूरॉय का द्वीप नज़र आता है और इसमें एक असाधारण अष्टकोणीय चर्च है। = English: The village of Haldarsvík offer views of the nearby island Eysturoy and has an unusual octagonal church.	Since Montevideo is south of the Equator, it is summer there when it's winter in the Northern Hemisphere and vice versa.	Because Montevideo is south of the equator, it is warm in the winter and cold in the summer in the northern hemisphere, and the opposite is true in the southern hemisphere.
Hindi: इस बर्ताव से कभी-कभी लीडर और बाकी टीम के बीच दरारें पैदा हो जाती हैं. = English: This behavior oftentimes results in rifts between the leaders and the rest of the team.	It's expected that most event tickets will cost between ¥2,500 and ¥130,000, with typical tickets costing around ¥7,000.	It is expected that most of the tickets will cost ¥ 2,500 to ¥130,000, with the standard tickets costing approximately ¥7,000.
Hindi: सेंट पीटर्सबर्ग पोतविहार में शहर में समय बिताना शामिल है। पोतविहार यात्रियों को वीज़ा आवश्यकताओं (शर्तों को जाँचें) से छूट दी गई है। = English: Saint Petersburg cruises include time in town. Cruise passengers are exempted from visa requirements (check the terms).	For over a thousand years the Christian religion had bound European states together despite differences in language and customs. I	Despite the differences in language and customs, Christianity has bound European countries together for thousands of years.
Hindi: इस सीरीज़ का फ़ाइनल मैच स्प्रिंगबोक्स और ऑस्ट्रेलिया के बीच, अगले हफ़्ते जोहान्सबर्ग के एलिस पार्क में खेला जाएगा. = English: The final match of the series will take place at Ellis Park in Johannesburg next week, when the Springboks play Australia.	Though many of the animals in the park are used to seeing humans, the wildlife is nonetheless wild and should not be fed or disturbed.	Although there are many animals in the park that are visible to humans, they are still wild and should not be fed or disturbed.
Hindi: एक और अंतर यह था कि जहाँ गरीब लोग और महिला कुर्सियों पर बैठकर खाना खाते थे, वहीं अमीर लोग मिलजुल कर दावतें करना पसंद करते थे और भोजन करते वक्त वे मौज मस्ती करते थे. = English: Another difference was that while the poor people and the woman ate their food while sitting in chairs, the rich men liked to have banquets together where they would lounge on their sides while they ate their meals.	Britain mined international waters to prevent any ships from entering entire sections of ocean, causing danger to even neutral ships.	Britain had mined the entire ocean to prevent any ship from entering the sea, which also posed a threat to the ships that were anchored on the shore.
Hindi: एक मौके पर तो भीड़ में मौजूद किसी व्यक्ति ने घबराई हुई महारानी के सामने ही वर्सेल्स में मारे गए शाही अंगरक्षक का सिर पकड़कर हिला दिया. = English: At one point a member of the mob waved the head of a royal guard killed at Versailles in front of the terrified Queen.	Plants look their best when in a natural environment, so resist the temptation to remove even "just one" specimen.	Plants look their best in their natural environment, so resist the temptation to remove “just one” sample.
Hindi: एक उदाहरण के रूप में, मध्य पूर्व में अमेरिकी नागरिकों को यूरोपीवासी या अरब के लोगों से अलग-अलग तरह की स्थितियों का सामना करना पड़ सकता है. = English: As one example, American citizens in the Middle East might face different situations from Europeans or Arabs.	Between 10:00-11:00 pm MDT, a fire was started by the inmates in the yard.	Between 10: 00-11: 00 a.m. MDT, prisoners set fire to the yard.
Hindi: द्वीपों में मूल रूप से आए सभी जानवर यहाँ तैरकर, उड़कर या बहकर आए हैं. = English: All animals that originally arrived in the islands came here either by swimming, flying or floating.	The “invisible team” is the management team to which each of the members report. The invisible team sets the standards for each member.	The invisible team is the management team that each member reports to. The invisible team sets the standard for each member.
Hindi: बॉर्नियो में जाना, फोटोग्राफी करना, और औरैंगउटान के बारे में जानना एक उदाहरण है. = English: An example is visiting, photographing, and learning about organgatuangs in Borneo.	Fears of lack of transportation raised the possibility that the game would be forced to play behind closed doors without the team's supporters.	The fear of transportation problems increased the likelihood that the game would be played behind closed doors with no spectators.
Hindi: माइकल शूमाकर ने अलोंसो के कुछ समय बाद ही अपनी रेस समाप्त कर दी थी कयोंकि रेस के दौरान कई संघर्षों में सस्पेंशन को क्षति पहुँची थी। = English: Michael Schumacher ended his race not long after Alonso, because of the suspension damage in the numerous battles during the race.	Each temple had an open temple courtyard and then an inner sanctuary that only the priests could enter.	Each temple had an open courtyard and then an inner sanctum where only the priests could enter.
Hindi: यह अवधारणा चीन से आई थी जहाँ बेर के फूल पसंदीदा फूल होते थे। = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	The center of Tibetan meditation is the Deity Yoga. Through the visualization of various deities the energy channels are cleaned, the chakras are activated and the enlightenment consciousness is created.	The Divine Yoga is the center of Tibetan meditation. Different deities are depicted to clear the energy channels, activate the chakras and build the consciousness of self-knowledge.
Hindi: गोमा, रवांडा के पास बिल्कुल पूर्व में कांगो लोकतांत्रिक गणराज्य का एक पर्यटन शहर है. = English: Goma is a tourist city of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the extreme east near Rwanda.	There are no particular "rainy" and "dry" seasons: the amount of rain stays roughly the same throughout the year.	There is no “rainy” or “dry” season: the amount of rain is roughly the same throughout the year.
Hindi: रकाबें सवार के पैरों को सहारा देने के लिए होती हैं जो काठी के दोनों तरफ नीचे की ओर लटकी रहती हैं. = English: Stirrups are supports for the rider's feet that hang down on either side of the saddle.	After a week of losses in the midterm election, Bush told an audience about the expansion of trade in Asia.	After losing a week-long midterm election, Bush told people about the expansion of trade in Asia.
Hindi: मोहम्मद इस सांसारिक जीवन से परे मामलों में गहरी रुचि रखते थे। वे अक्सर चिंतन के लिए एक गुफा का उपयोग करते थे जिसे “नूर” (प्रकाश) के पर्वत पर “हीरा” के रूप में जाना जाता है। = English: Muhammad was deeply interested in matters beyond this mundane life. He used to frequent a cave that became known as “Hira‘” on the Mountain of “Noor” (light) for contemplation.	Sadly, as newer methods of writing have emerged, the pencil has been relegated to lesser status and uses.	It is a pity that as new methods of writing have developed, the position and use of the pen have diminished.
Hindi: आम तौर पर सिंगापुर रहने के लिए काफ़ी सुरक्षित जगह है. आप यहाँ आसानी से नेविगेट कर सकते हैं और यहाँ आने के बाद लगभग हर चीज़ खरीद सकते हैं. = English: Singapore is generally an extremely safe place to be and very easy to navigate, and you can buy almost anything after arriving.	Accepted were Aristotle's views on all matters of science, including psychology.	Aristotle's ideas on all matters of science, including psychology, are accepted.
Hindi: फिलीपींस के राजधानी मनीला में एक पूर्व फिलिपिनो पुलिसकर्मी ने उनकी बस को अपहरण करके हांगकांग के पर्यटकों को बंधक बना रखा है। = English: A former Filipino policeman has kept Hong Kong tourists hostage by hijacking their bus in Manila, the capital of the Philippines.	Content theories are centered on finding what makes people tick or appeals to them.	The theory of content focuses on finding out what people like or what attracts them.
Hindi: इनविजिबल टीम वह प्रबंधन टीम है, जिस पर प्रत्येक सदस्य रिपोर्ट करते हैं. इनविजिबल टीम प्रत्येक सदस्य के लिए मानक निर्धारित करती है. = English: The “invisible team” is the management team to which each of the members report. The invisible team sets the standards for each member.	We make our houses from plants and make clothes from plants. Most foods that we eat are plants. Without plants, animals could not survive.	We build our homes with plants and clothes with plants. Most of the food that we eat is plant. Plants are the basis of life for animals. Without plants, animals cannot live.
Hindi: द सिंपसन के पहले साइमन ने कई शोज़ के कई पोज़िशन्स में काम किया था. = English: Before The Simpsons Simon had worked on several shows in various positions.	The final match of the series will take place at Ellis Park in Johannesburg next week, when the Springboks play Australia.	The final match of the series will be played between Springbox and Australia in Johannesburg's Ellis Park next week.
Hindi: यह शहर, अफ़्रीका के कुछ सबसे सस्ते पहाड़ी गोरिल्ला ट्रेकिंग के साथ ही नायरागोंगो ज्वालामुखी की चढ़ाई करने का बेस भी है. = English: The city is also the base to climb the Nyiragongo volcano along with some of the cheapest Mountain Gorilla tracking in Africa.	One of the most common methods used to illustrate the importance of socialization is to draw upon the few unfortunate cases of children who were, through neglect, misfortune, or wilful abuse, not socialized by adults while they were growing up.	The importance of socialization is often illustrated by the use of some unfortunate cases of children who were not neglected, but rather neglected, unfortunate or abused as adults.
Hindi: जर्नल साइंस में गुरूवार को प्रकाशित एक अध्ययन ने इक्वाडोरियन गैलापागोस आइलैंड पर एक नई पक्षी प्रजाति के निर्माण की सूचना दी. = English: A study published on Thursday in the journal Science reported on formation of a new bird species on the Ecuadorean Galápagos Islands.	The money could go toward flood-proof houses, better water management, and crop diversification.	Money can be used to build flood-resistant houses, better water management and crop diversification.
Hindi: आम तौर पर सैटेलाइट फोन को मोबाइल फोन के स्थान पर उपयोग नहीं किया जा सकता है, क्योंकि सैटेलाइट फोन से कॉल करने के लिए आपको उपग्रह की रेखा पर घर के बाहर रहना पड़ेगा। = English: A satellite phone is not generally a replacement for a mobile phone, as you have to be outdoors with clear line of sight to the satellite to make a phone call.	Money can be exchanged at the only bank in the islands which is located in Stanley across from the FIC West store.	The only bank on these islands is the one in front of the FIC West Store in Stanley.
Hindi: औसीलट छोटे जानवरों को खाना पसंद करते हैं। यदि वे पकड़ सकें, तो वे बंदरों, साँपों, कृन्तकों और पक्षियों को पकड़ लेंगे। लगभग सभी जानवर जो औसीलट का शिकार होते हैं, इनसे बहुत छोटे होते हैं। = English: Ocelots like to eat small animals. They will catch monkeys, snakes, rodents and birds if they can. Almost all of the animals that the ocelot hunts are far smaller than it is.	Do not deface the site by marking or scratching graffiti into structures.	Do not damage the place by making marks or scratches on it.
