French: La Norvège, la Suède et la Nouvelle-Zélande sont dans la même situation, mais à part cela, c'est un cas unique (aux Pays-Bas, par exemple, le chiffre est de un à quarante). = English: This is matched by Norway, Sweden and New Zealand, but otherwise quite unique (e.g. in the Netherlands the figure is one to forty).	This is matched by Norway, Sweden and New Zealand, but otherwise quite unique (e.g. in the Netherlands the figure is one to forty).	This is matched by Norway, Sweden and New Zealand, but otherwise quite unique (e.g. in the Netherlands the figure is one to forty).
French: Les tireurs de l’essai supplémentaire de lutte contre les parasites devaient être étroitement surveillés par des rangers, car l’essai était contrôlé et son efficacité évaluée. = English: Shooters in the supplementary pest control trial were to be closely supervised by rangers, as the trial was monitored and its effectiveness evaluated.	If visiting a formally arranged garden, collecting "specimens" is also going to get you ejected, without discussion.	If you visit a strictly managed garden, taking “specimens” will also get you thrown out without discussion.
French: De manière générale, deux comportements peuvent émerger lorsqu'un manager devient le chef d'anciens collègues. D'une des extrémités du spectre étant d'essayer de rester « le bon copain » (ou la bonne copine). = English: Generally speaking, two behaviors can emerge as managers begin to lead their former peers. One end of the spectrum is trying to remain “one of the guys” (or gals).	Officials for the city of Amsterdam and the Anne Frank Museum state that the tree is infected with a fungus and poses a public health hazard as they argue that it was in imminent danger of falling over.	The city of Amsterdam and the Anne Frank Museum say the tree is infected with a fungus and poses a public health hazard because they say there is an immediate danger of falling.
French: Le porte-parole de Médecins Sans Frontières, Richard Veerman, a déclaré : « L'Angola se dirige vers la pire épidémie jamais connue et la situation reste très mauvaise en Angola », a-t-il déclaré. = English: Spokesman for Medecines Sans Frontiere Richard Veerman said: "Angola is heading for its worst ever outbreak and the situation remains very bad in Angola," he said.	Travellers bound for countries with heavy taxation can sometimes save a considerable amount of money, especially on products such as alcoholic beverages and tobacco.	Travellers to countries with high taxes can sometimes make considerable savings, particularly on products such as alcoholic drinks or tobacco.
French: Fluke a écrit que les efforts de certains pour empêcher les femmes de parler de leur santé ont échoué. = English: Fluke wrote that the efforts by some to drown out women from speaking out about women’s health were unsuccessful.	Danielle Lantagne, a UN expert on the disease, stated the outbreak was likely caused by the peacekeepers.	Danielle Lantagne, an expert on the disease, said the outbreak was probably caused by UN peacekeepers.
French: La contemplation des fleurs de cerisier, connue sous le nom de hanami, fait partie de la culture japonaise depuis le VIIIe siècle. = English: Cherry blossom viewing, known as hanami, has been a part of Japanese culture since the 8th century.	Although the water level will only rise a few feet after the flood, officials are hoping it will be enough to restore eroded sandbars downstream.	Although the water level will only rise by a few meters after the flood, the authorities hope that will be enough to restore the eroded sandbanks downstream.
French: Pendant les blizzards, il peut tomber en très peu de temps assez de neige pour vous bloquer. = English: During blizzards, enough snow to get you stuck can fall in very little time.	Subcultures can be distinctive because of the age, ethnicity, class, location, and/or gender of the members.	Subcultures can be distinguished by the age, ethnic origin, class, location and / or sex of their members.
French: Pas moins de 20 % de l'eau qui se jette des rivières de la planète dans les océans provient de l'Amazone. = English: A full 20 percent of the water that pours out of the planet's rivers into the oceans comes from the Amazon.	He produced over 1,000 stamps for Sweden and 28 other countries.	He has produced more than 1,000 stamps for Sweden and 28 other countries.
French: Pendant la nuit, entre 150 et 200 exemplaires ont été faits, aujourd’hui connus sous le nom de « Dunlap Broadsides ». = English: Through the night between 150 and 200 copies were made, now known as "Dunlap broadsides".	NextGen is a system the FAA claims would allow aircraft to fly shorter routes and save millions of gallons of fuel each year and cut carbon emissions.	According to the FAA, NextGen is a system that would allow aircraft to fly shorter distances and save millions of gallons of fuel each year, limiting carbon emissions.
French: Il y a beaucoup de vins français à déguster, mais les vins néo-zélandais et australiens voyageront peut-être mieux. = English: There are many French wines to be had, but the New Zealand and Australian wines might travel better.	The early reports say the plane was diverted back to Afghanistan after being denied an emergency landing in Ürümqi.	The first reports indicate that the plane was diverted to Afghanistan after being denied an emergency landing in Ürümqi.
French: Ce n'est cependant pas la seule, l'expérimentation, et une expérience est un test qui sert à éliminer une ou plusieurs des hypothèses possibles, poser des questions et faire des observations, mais qui oriente également la recherche scientifique. = English: It isn’t alone though, experimentation, and an experiment is a test that is used to eliminate one or more of the possible hypotheses, asking questions, and making observations also guide scientific research.	Also the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said that there was no Tsunami indication.	In addition, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said there was no sign of a tsunami.
French: Un plat au curry peut être « solide » ou « liquide », selon la quantité de sauce qu'il contient. = English: A curry can be either "dry" or "wet" depending on the amount of liquid.	But, after losing the captain's wicket India only made 36 runs loosing 7 wickets to end the innings.	But after losing the wicket of its captain, India made only 36 runs and lost seven wickets until the end of the innings.
French: Bien que la construction de pyramides en pierre se soit poursuivie jusqu'à la fin de l'Ancien Empire, les pyramides de Gizeh n'ont jamais été surpassées par leur taille et l'excellence technique de leur construction. = English: Although pyramid-building in stone continued until the end of the Old Kingdom, the pyramids of Giza were never surpassed in their size and the technical excellence of their construction.	Her first was the Slalom, where she earned a Did Not Finish in her first run. 36 of the 116 competitors had the same result in that race.	She first participated in the slalom, where she obtained a "DNF" (did not finish) in her first race. 36 of the 116 competitors obtained the same result in this race.
French: Les enfants sont placés dans des familles d’accueil pour des raisons très diverses qui vont de la négligence à la maltraitance, en passant par l’extorsion. = English: Children are placed in Foster Care for a wide variety of reasons that range from neglect, to abuse, and even to extortion.	On 15 August 1940, the Allies invaded southern France, the invasion was called "Operation Dragoon".	On August 15, 1940, the Allies landed in southern France, an invasion called Operation “Dragoon”.
French: Il repose sur les technologies satellitaires, et non sur les systèmes radars au sol utilisés auparavant, ce qui permet aux contrôleurs aériens de localiser les avions avec davantage de précision et de fournir aux pilotes des informations plus détaillées. = English: It uses satellite-based technology as opposed to older ground-radar-based technology to allow air traffic controllers to pinpoint aircraft with greater precision and give pilots more accurate information.	Science now indicates that this massive carbon economy has dislodged the biosphere from one of its stable states that has supported human evolution for the past two million years.	Science now shows that this massively carbon-based economy has dislodged the biosphere from its state of stability that supported human evolution for two million years.
French: L'élevage de rennes est un moyen de subsistance important chez les Samis et la culture qui entoure ce commerce revêt une grande importance pour beaucoup d'autres professions. = English: Reindeer husbandry is an important livelihood among the Sámi and the culture surrounding the trade is important also for many with other professions.	The road where the crash happened was temporarily closed while emergency services freed the driver from the red Audi TT.	The road where the accident happened was temporarily closed to allow the rescue services to extract the driver of the red Audi TT.
French: La principale bière locale est la « Number One », une bière assez ordinaire, mais savoureuse et rafraîchissante. Il existe aussi une autre bière locale, la « Manta ». = English: The main local beer is 'Number One', it is not a complex beer, but pleasant and refreshing. The other local beer is called "Manta".	Thousands of years ago, a man called Aristarchus said that the Solar System moved around the Sun.	Aristarque of Samos, a Greek astronomer, said that the solar system was moving around the Sun.
French: Finalement, les roues en bois ont été remplacées par des roues en fer. En 1767, les premiers rails en fer ont fait leur apparition. = English: Eventually, wooden wheels were replaced by iron wheels. In 1767, the first full-iron rails were introduced.	Everyone can achieve enlightenment. The only thing standing in the way of this goal is our own tension and negativity.	Everyone can reach enlightenment. The only thing that stands in the way of this goal is our own tension and negativity.
French: Parmi les sports populaires figurent le football, le basket-ball, le volley-ball, le water-polo, l'escrime, le rugby, le cyclisme, le hockey sur glace, le roller hockey et la Formule 1. = English: Popular sports include football, basketball, volleyball, water-polo, fencing, rugby, cycling, ice hockey, roller hockey and F1 motor racing.	Why would an organization want to go through the time consuming process of establishing a learning organization? One goal for putting organizational learning concepts into practice is innovation.	Why would an organization want to impose the tedious process of creating a learning structure ? One of the objectives related to the implementation of organizational learning concepts is innovation.
French: Sur les routes glacées et enneigées, le frottement est faible et vous ne pouvez pas conduire comme si vous étiez sur l'asphalte nu. = English: On icy and snowy roadways, friction is low and you cannot drive as if you were on bare asphalt.	The speeds of 802.11n are substantially faster than that of its predecessors with a maximum theoretical throughput of 600Mbit/s.	The speeds of the 802.11n Wi-Fi standard are substantially faster than those of its predecessors, with a maximum theoretical throughput of 600 Mbit/s.
French: De même que les hommes doivent porter un pantalon couvrant les genoux. = English: Along the same line, men are required to wear trousers covering the knees.	North Shore beaches (in North Harbour district) are on the Pacific Ocean and stretch from Long Bay in the north to Devonport in the south.	The North Shore beaches (in the North Harbour district) are on the Pacific Ocean and stretch from Long Bay to the north to Devonport to the south.
French: Les opinions présentées sont souvent superficielles, générales et trop simplifiées par rapport aux informations plus détaillées disponibles ailleurs. = English: The views presented are often cursory, general and oversimplified compared to the more detailed information available elsewhere.	Some venues offer alcoholic beverages on the house. However, drunkenness impairs judgement, and all good gamblers know the importance of staying sober.	On some sites, locals offer free alcoholic drinks. However, drunkenness impairs judgment, and all good players know that it is crucial to stay sober.
French: Hu a encouragé les pays en voie de développement « à éviter l'ancienne méthode qui consistait à polluer d'abord et à nettoyer ensuite ». = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	Women should realize that cultural differences may result in what they would consider harassment and it is not uncommon to be followed, grabbed by the arm, etc.	Women must realize that some cultural differences can lead to behaviors that they consider harassment. It is indeed common for them to be followed, grabbed by the arm, etc.
French: Les insectes ont été les premiers animaux à s'envoler. Leur capacité à voler leur a permis d'échapper plus facilement à leurs ennemis et de trouver plus efficacement de la nourriture et des compagnons. = English: Insects were the first animals to take to the air. Their ability to fly helped them evade enemies more easily and find food and mates more efficiently.	There may be more maria on the near side because the crust is thinner. It was easier for lava to rise up to the surface.	There may be more maria on the near side because the crust is thinner. It was easier for lava to rise to the surface.
French: Toutes les entrées des grottes, qui ont été baptisées « Les sept sœurs », ont un diamètre d’au moins 100 à 250 mètres. = English: All of the cave entrances, which were named "The Seven Sisters", are at least 100 to 250 meters (328 to 820 feet) in diameter.	Others include Livingston Island, and Deception where the flooded caldera of a still-active volcano provides a spectacular natural harbour.	Other examples: the island of Livingston and Deception, where the flooded caldera of an active volcano offers a spectacular natural harbor.
French: Le véhicule lui-même a été enlevé du lieu de l'accident vers 12 h 00 GMT le même jour. = English: The vehicle itself was taken away from the scene of the accident at approximately 1200 GMT on the same day.	Cherry blossom viewing, known as hanami, has been a part of Japanese culture since the 8th century.	The viewing of cherry blossoms, known as hanami, is part of Japanese culture since the 8th century.
French: Les scientifiques disent que le plumage de cet animal était brun châtain sur le dessus et de couleur pâle ou caroténoïde sur le dessous. = English: . Scientists say this animal's plumage was chestnut-brown on top with a pale or carotenoid-colored underside.	The researchers observed crystals formed in cat urine by the addition of melamine and cyanuric acid.	. Investigators discovered that crystals had formed in the cats' urine due to the presence of these additional substances, melamine and cyanuric acid.
French: Vous pouvez boire l'eau du robinet local sans danger, mais vous pouvez facilement trouver de l'eau en bouteille si vous avez des craintes à son sujet. = English: The local tap water is perfectly safe to drink, but bottled water is easy to find if you are fearful.	However, the driver sustained serious injuries to the head.	However, the driver was seriously injured in the head.
French: Les meutes sont composées d’un à trois mâles adultes apparentés, ainsi que d’une trentaine de femelles et de lionceaux. = English: Prides are made up of one to three related adult males, along with as many as thirty females and cubs.	The first known transportation was walking, humans began walking upright two million years ago with the emergence of Homo Erectus (meaning upright man).	The first means of transportation was walking: humans began walking upright two million years ago with the arrival of Homo Erectus ("upright man").
French: Les personnes transsexuelles en phase préopératoire ne doivent pas s'attendre à passer les scanners en préservant leur vie privée et leur dignité. = English: Pre-operative transgender people should not expect to pass through the scanners with their privacy and dignity intact.	Crossties were introduced fairly early to hold the tracks in place. Gradually, however, it was realised that tracks would be more efficient if they had a stip of iron on the top.	The crossbars were introduced early on to keep the tracks in place. However, it was soon realized that the tracks would be more effective if they were equipped with a strip of iron on top.
French: L'objectif principal de la science est de comprendre la façon dont le monde fonctionne grâce à la méthode scientifique. Cette méthode guide en fait la plupart des recherches scientifiques. = English: Science’s main goal is to figure out the way the world works through the scientific method. This method in fact guides most scientific research.	At the same time, the German navy, using mainly U-boats, was trying to stop this traffic.	At the same time, the German navy, using mainly U-Boats, tried to stop this traffic.
French: Bien que la construction de pyramides en pierre se soit poursuivie jusqu'à la fin de l'Ancien Empire, les pyramides de Gizeh n'ont jamais été surpassées par leur taille et l'excellence technique de leur construction. = English: Although pyramid-building in stone continued until the end of the Old Kingdom, the pyramids of Giza were never surpassed in their size and the technical excellence of their construction.	Tamaki Drive beaches are on the Waitemata Harbour, in the upmarket suburbs of Mission Bay and St Heliers in Central Auckland.	The beaches of Tamaki Drive are located on the Waitemata Harbour, in the upmarket suburbs of Mission Bay and Saint Heliers in the centre of Auckland.
French: Le roi et la reine ont été obligés, à cause de la foule, de faire ouvrir les fenêtres de leurs carrosses. = English: The mob of people forced the King And Queen to have their carriage windows wide open.	Everything in the Universe is made of matter. All matter is made of tiny particles called atoms.	Everything in the Universe is made of matter. All matter is made of tiny particles called atoms.
French: N'oubliez pas que même si les spectacles musicaux sont terminés sur les scènes principales, d'autres spectacles musicaux peuvent se poursuivre jusqu'à tard dans la nuit sur d'autres sites du festival. = English: Remember that even though music on the main stages may have finished, there may be sections of the festival that will keep playing music until late into the night.	Several hostages have been rescued and least six have been confirmed dead so far.	Several hostages have been rescued, and the death of at least six of them has been confirmed so far.
French: Dans cette navette de transport dynamique, chacun est en quelque sorte relié à un système de transport basé sur les voitures particulières et le soutient. = English: In this dynamic transport shuttle everyone is somehow connected with, and supporting, a transport system based on private cars.	Today, the only insects that cannot fold back their wings are dragon flies and mayflies.	Today, the only insects that cannot fold their wings are dragonflies and mayflies.
French: Les cultures minoritaires disparaissent souvent sans laisser de traces historiques pertinentes et ne sont pas reconnues comme de véritables civilisations. = English: Minor cultures often vanish without leaving relevant historic evidence and fail to be recognized as proper civilizations.	In 2002 Goma was destroyed by lava from the Nyiragongo volcano which buried most of the town’s streets, particularly the town centre.	In 2002, Goma was destroyed by the lava of the Nyiragongo volcano, which buried most of the streets of the city, especially the downtown area.
French: Mais indépendamment de sa découverte, des tribus esquimaudes y vivaient déjà à l’époque. = English: But regardless of his discovery, Eskimo tribes were already living there at the time.	It was one of the major stops during Henry Louis Gates' PBS special Wonders of the African World.	It was one of the main stops on the PBS program "Wonders of the African World" by Henry Louis Gates.
French: Malgré les larmes versées lors de ses adieux, Oprah Winfrey a clairement dit à ses fans qu'elle serait de retour. = English: Although Winfrey was tearful in her farewell, she made it clear to her fans she will be back.	The surface of the Moon is made of rocks and dust. The outer layer of the Moon is called the crust.	The surface of the moon is made of rocks and dust. Its outer layer is called the crust.
French: « Il [Wales] nous a carrément menti dès le départ. Tout d'abord en prétextant des raison légales, puis en faisant semblant de nous écouter jusqu'à ce qu'il ait supprimé son œuvre. » = English: "He [Wales] basically lied to us from the start. First, by acting as if this was for legal reasons. Second, by pretending he was listening to us, right up to his art deletion."	Due to the cluster/group of islands Japan has, Japan is often referred to, on a geographical stance, as an "archipelago"	"Japan is often referred to, from a geographical point of view, as an archipelago."
French: Un médecin exerçant à l'hôpital pour enfants de Pittsburgh, en Pennsylvanie, a été accusé de meurtre avec circonstances aggravantes après que sa mère ait été retrouvée morte dans le coffre de sa voiture mercredi, selon les autorités de l'Ohio. = English: A doctor who worked at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania will be charged with aggravated murder after her mother was found dead in the trunk of her car Wednesday, authorities in Ohio say.	It has a notably wide variety of plant communities, due to its range of microclimates, differing soils and varying levels of altitude.	The country has a great variety of plant communities due to the diversity of its microclimates, soils and altitudes.
French: Le Dr Ehud Ur, professeur de médecine à l'Université Dalhousie de Halifax (Nouvelle-Écosse) et président de la division clinique et scientifique de l'Association canadienne du diabète, a averti que la recherche en était encore à ses débuts. = English: Dr. Ehud Ur, professor of medicine at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia and chair of the clinical and scientific division of the Canadian Diabetes Association cautioned that the research is still in its early days.	The Hershey and Chase experiment was one of the leading suggestions that DNA was a genetic material.	The Hershey and Chase experiment was one of the main indications that DNA was a genetic material.
French: Par exemple, « l'apprentissage » et « la socialisation » sont considérés comme de grands facteurs favorisant l'utilisation d'Internet (James et al., 1995). = English: For example, “learning” and “socialization” are suggested as important motivations for Internet use (James et al., 1995).	The bridge is scheduled to be fully operational in September 2017, when the Brazilian customs checkpoints are expected to be finished.	The bridge should be fully operational in September 2017, when the Brazilian customs control posts are expected to be completed.
French: Le rapport s'ouvre par un appel à un débat ouvert et à la formation d'un consensus aux États-Unis sur la politique à l'égard du Moyen-Orient. = English: The Report opens with plea for open debate and the formation of a consensus in the United States about the policy towards the Middle East.	People may not anticipate that patience and understanding are also necessary for travellers returning home.	People may not anticipate that patience and understanding are also needed for travelers and travelers returning home.
French: Un couple peut très bien estimer qu'il n'est pas dans leur intérêt, ni dans celui de l'enfant, de s'occuper de l'éducation d'un bébé. = English: A couple may decide it is not in their best interest, or in the interest of their child, to raise a baby.	With only eighteen medals available a day, a number of countries have failed to make the medal podium.	With only eighteen medals available per day, a number of countries failed to make the podium of medallists.
French: Les soldats de la paix de l'ONU, qui sont arrivés en Haïti après le tremblement de terre de 2010, sont accusés de la propagation de la maladie qui a commencé près du campement de la troupe. = English: UN peacekeepers, whom arrived in Haiti after the 2010 earthquake, are being blamed for the spread of the disease which started near the troop's encampment.	Try aiming somewhere where you are not caught again or, depending on your skills and on whether you have been noticed, you might want to wait for rescue.	Try to aim for a place where you won't be caught again. It is also possible, depending on your skills and if you have been spotted or not, that you might want to wait for the rescue.
French: En 2002, Goma a été détruite par la lave du volcan Nyiragongo qui a enseveli la plupart des rues de la ville, en particulier le centre-ville. = English: In 2002 Goma was destroyed by lava from the Nyiragongo volcano which buried most of the town’s streets, particularly the town centre.	Of course, the superprofits derived from the protracted exploitation of the Filipino people would constitute the basic gains of U.S. imperialism.	Naturally, the superprofits from the prolonged exploitation of the Philippine people could constitute the fundamental benefits of American imperialism.
French: En revanche, le service mobile est curieusement beaucoup plus fort ici que sur beaucoup d'autres parties de la route, par exemple les Pennsylvania Wilds. = English: Curiously, though, mobile phone service is much stronger here than along many other stretches of the route, e.g. the Pennsylvania Wilds.	To understand the Templars one must understand the context that prompted the creation of the order.	To understand the Templars, you have to understand the context that led to the creation of the order.
French: Initialement, l'émission était uniquement diffusée sur le vénérable site de radio Internet TogiNet Radio, un site consacré à la radio parlée. = English: In its early days, the show was featured solely at the long-running internet radio site TogiNet Radio, a site focused on talk radio.	As a result, the process of an organization working together to overcome an obstacle can lead to a new innovative process to serve the customer's need.	Therefore, the process of an organization working together to overcome a barrier can lead to a new innovative process to meet the customer's need.
French: La plupart des monastères fournissent des étoles aux femmes qui arrivent sans rien, mais si vous apportez la vôtre, et qu'en plus elle arbore des couleurs vives, vous aurez droit à un sourire du moine ou de la nonne à l'entrée. = English: Most of the monasteries do provide wraps for women who come unprepared, but if you bring your own, especially one with bright colors, you'll get a smile from the monk or nun at the entrance.	During the 1920s, the prevailing attitudes of most citizens and nations was that of pacifism and isolation.	During the 1920s, most citizens and nations showed a tendency for pacifism and isolation.
French: Le programme a démarré à 20 h 30, heure locale (15 h 00 UTC). = English: The program started at 8:30 p.m. local time (15.00 UTC).	Parisians have a reputation for being egocentric, rude and arrogant.	Parisians are known for being self-centered, rude and arrogant.
French: Les plantes produisent leur nourriture à l'aide du soleil par photosynthèse. Elles fournissent également de l’ombre. = English: Plants make their food from the sun by photosynthesis. They also provide shade.	However, due to the slow communication channels, styles in the west could lag behind by 25 to 30 year.	However, due to the slowness of communication means, Western fashions could be 25 to 30 years behind.
French: Un tremblement de terre modéré a secoué l’ouest du Montana lundi à 22 h 08. = English: A moderate earthquake shook western Montana at 10:08 p.m. on Monday.	In remote locations, without cell phone coverage, a satellite phone may be your only option.	In remote areas, without cellular phone coverage, you may have no choice but to use satellite phones.
French: Nous appelons ce processus « spéciation », ce qui signifie simplement la formation de nouvelles espèces. La spéciation est une conséquence inévitable et une partie très importante de l’évolution. = English: We call this process speciation, which just means the formation of new species. Speciation is an unavoidable consequence and a very important part of evolution.	In good conditions you will be able to cover somewhat greater distances than walking – but only very seldom you will get the speeds of cross country skiing without a heavy backpack in groomed tracks.	In good conditions, you can travel a little further than on foot – but you will rarely reach the speeds of cross-country skiing without a heavy backpack on groomed trails.
French: Le spectacle son et lumière à la pyramide constitue l'une des attractions les plus intéressantes de la région pour les enfants. = English: The pyramid sound and light show is one of the most interesting things in the area for kids.	The debate was sparked by controversy over spending on relief and reconstruction in the wake Hurricane Katrina; which some fiscal conservatives have humorously labeled "Bush's New Orleans Deal."	The debate was triggered by the controversy over spending on relief and reconstruction following Hurricane Katrina; what some budget conservatives have jokingly called "Bush's New Orleans deal".
French: Deux ans après la fin de la guerre, les anciens alliés sont devenus des ennemis et la guerre froide a commencé. = English: With two years of the end of the war, the former allies were now enemies and the Cold War began.	They have cancelled the tour after lead singer Steven Tyler was injured after he fell off stage while performing on August 5.	They cancelled the tour after the singer Steven Tyler was injured falling off stage during a concert on August 5.
French: Des éléments comme le calcium et le potassium sont considérés comme des métaux. Bien sûr, il y a aussi des métaux comme l’argent et l’or. = English: Elements like calcium and potassium are considered metals. Of course, there are also metals like silver and gold.	All of the cave entrances, which were named "The Seven Sisters", are at least 100 to 250 meters (328 to 820 feet) in diameter.	All the entrances to the caves, which have been named « The seven sisters », have a diameter of at least 100 to 250 meters.
French: Il est également conseillé de porter une alliance (qui ne doit pas sembler trop précieuse. = English: It is helpful to also wear a ring (just not one that looks too expensive.	Many trips to the reef are made all year around, and injuries due to any of these causes on the reef are rare.	Many trips to the reef are made throughout the year, and injuries due to one of these causes on the reef are rare.
French: C'est ce qu'on appelle le pH d'un produit chimique. Vous pouvez fabriquer un indicateur en utilisant du jus de chou rouge. = English: This is called a chemical's pH. You can make an indicator using red cabbage juice.	There is no universal definition for which manufactured items are antiques. Some tax agencies define goods older than 100 years as antiques.	There is no universal definition of what constitutes an antique. Some tax authorities define items over 100 years old as antiques.
French: Il y a quelques milliers d’années, un homme appelé Aristarque a affirmé que le système solaire se déplaçait autour du Soleil. = English: Thousands of years ago, a man called Aristarchus said that the Solar System moved around the Sun.	Needless to say, if you know a Romance language, it will be easier for you to learn Portuguese.	It goes without saying that if you know a Romance language, it will be easier for you to learn Portuguese.
French: Peu de gens les considèrent comme des dinosaures étant donne qu'ils ont des ailes et peuvent voler. = English: Many people don't think about them as dinosaurs because they have feathers and can fly.	Liberal criticism of the reconstruction effort has focused on the awarding of reconstruction contracts to perceived Washington insiders.	Liberal critics of the reconstruction effort have focused on the awarding of reconstruction contracts to people perceived as insiders of Washington.
French: Le transport supplémentaire est inexistant et les trains de surface ne s’arrêteront pas à Wembley, et les parkings et parcs relais ne sont pas disponibles au sol. = English: No extra transport is being put on and overground trains will not stop at Wembley, and car parking and park-and-ride facilities are unavailable at the ground.	Since the arrival of man to the Galapagos, many mammals have been introduced including goats, horses, cows, rats, cats and dogs.	Since the arrival of man to the Galapagos, many mammals have been introduced, including goats, horses, cows, rats, cats and dogs.
French: Ces pratiques ont conduit à des disciplines distinctes, axées sur l'apport des solutions aux problèmes de la vie quotidienne. = English: Such things have become separate disciplines, which focus on providing solutions to real life problems.	Danius said, "Right now we are doing nothing. I have called and sent emails to his closest collaborator and received very friendly replies. For now, that is certainly enough."	Danius said : « At the moment, we are doing nothing. I have called and sent emails to his closest collaborator and have received very friendly responses. For the moment, this is certainly enough. »
French: La prononciation est relativement facile en italien, car la plupart des mots sont prononcés exactement comme ils sont écrits = English: Pronunciation is relatively easy in Italian since most words are pronounced exactly how they are written	The Babylonians built each of their gods a primary temple that was considered the home of the god.	The Babylonians built for each of their gods a main temple which was considered the god's dwelling place.
French: Il y a encore beaucoup de femmes et d'hommes en vie qui ont survécu à leur séjour ici, et beaucoup d'autres qui ont vu leurs proches assassinés ou tués par le travail forcé, Juifs ou non Juifs indifféremment. = English: There are still many men and women alive who survived their time here, and many more who had loved ones who were murdered or worked to death there, Jews and non-Jews alike.	They have feet with scales and claws, they lay eggs, and they walk on their two back legs like a T-Rex.	They have scaly legs and claws, they lay eggs and walk on their hind legs like T-Rexes.
French: La monnaie officielle des Îles Malouines est la livre des Îles Malouines (FKP) dont la valeur est équivalente à une livre sterling (GBP). = English: The official Falklands currency is the Falkland pound (FKP) whose value is set equivalent to that of one British pound (GBP).	Commons Administrator Adam Cuerden expressed his frustration over the deletions when he spoke to Wikinews last month.	In his speech on Wikinews last month, Adam Cuerden, director of Commons, expressed his frustration at the deletions that had been made.
French: Il faut une fusée géante de plus de 30 mètres de haut pour mettre un satellite ou un télescope dans l’espace. = English: It takes a giant rocket over a 100 feet high to put a satellite or telescope in space.	Buses depart the inter-district bus station (across the river) throughout the day, though most, especially those heading to the east and Jakar/Bumthang leave between 06:30 and 07:30.	Buses leave the inter-district bus station (located on the other side of the river) all day long, but most, particularly those going east to Jakar/Bumthang, leave between 6:30 and 7:30 in the morning.
French: Les voyageurs qui prévoient une opération de changement de sexe à l'étranger doivent s'assurer d'avoir en leur possession des documents valables pour leur voyage de retour. = English: Voyagers planning sex reassignment surgery abroad must ensure they're carrying valid documents for the return trip.	Their thermal behavior is not as steady as large caves on Earth that often maintain a fairly constant temperature, but it is consistent with these being deep holes in the ground," said Glen Cushing of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Astrogeology Team and of Northern Arizona University located in Flagstaff, Arizona.	Glen Cushing, a member of the USGS (United States Geological Survey) and the staff of Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff, Arizona, said, “They don’t have the same thermal stability as the big caves on the planet that maintain a constant temperature, but they do have similarities in that they are deep holes in the ground.”
French: Les données neurobiologiques fournissent des preuves matérielles pour une approche théorique de l'étude de la cognition. Elles permettent donc de réduire le champ de recherche et de le rendre beaucoup plus précis. = English: Neurobiological data provide physical evidence for a theoretical approach to the investigation of cognition. Therefore it narrows the research area and makes it much more exact.	Most modern research telescopes are enormous facilities in remote areas with favorable atmospheric conditions.	Most modern research telescopes are huge infrastructures placed in remote areas where atmospheric conditions are favorable.
French: Dans de nombreux cas, il s’agit d’un traitement symptomatique. Cependant, si nous ne voulons pas seulement une solution temporaire, nous devons trouver la racine des problèmes et les désactiver. = English: This is just like symptomatic treatment in many cases. However, if we do not only want a temporary solution, then we should find the root of the problems, and we should deactivate them.	Ellsworth Land is the region south of the Peninsula, bounded by the Bellingshausen Sea.	Ellsworth Land is the southern region of the peninsula, delimited by the Bellingshausen Sea.
French: Les plages de Tamaki Drive se trouvent sur le port de Waitemata, dans la banlieue chic de Mission Bay et de Saint Heliers dans le centre d’Auckland. = English: Tamaki Drive beaches are on the Waitemata Harbour, in the upmarket suburbs of Mission Bay and St Heliers in Central Auckland.	In principle the Tibetan Buddhism is very simple. It consists of Kundalini Yoga, meditation and the path of all-embracing love.	In principle, Tibetan Buddhism is very simple. It consists of Kundalini Yoga, meditation and the path of universal love.
French: Les voies navigables intérieures peuvent être un excellent thème pour des vacances. = English: Inland waterways can be a good theme to base a holiday around.	Many observed rhythms in physiology and behavior often crucially depend on the presence of endogenous cycles and their production through biological clocks.	Many rhythms observed in physiology and behaviour often depend largely on the presence of endogenous cycles and their production by biological clocks.
French: Les voyageurs peuvent rencontrer des animaux nuisibles qu'ils ne connaissent pas dans leur région d'origine. = English: Travellers may encounter animal pests that they are not familiar with in their home regions.	In 1990, it was added to the list of world heritage sites in danger, due to the threat of desert sands.	In 1990, it was added to the list of World Heritage sites in danger, due to the threat of desert sands.
French: Pour les Australiens, l'idée d'un « café crème » est étrangère. Un noir court est un « espresso », le cappuccino est rempli de crème (pas de mousse) et le thé est servi sans lait. = English: For Australians, the idea of 'flat white' coffee is foreign. A short black is 'espresso', cappuccino comes heaped high with cream (not froth), and tea is served without milk.	The French Revolution also inspired many other repressed working class people of other country's to began their own revolutions.	The French Revolution also inspired many other oppressed working classes in other countries to start their own revolution.
French: Hershey et Chase ont utilisé des phages, ou des virus, pour implanter leur propre ADN dans une bactérie. = English: Hershey and Chase used phages, or viruses, to implant their own DNA into a bacterium.	The idea of skiing is very old — cave paintings depicting skiers date back as far as 5000 BC!	The idea of skiing is very old: some rock paintings showing skiers date back to 5,000 years BC!
French: Il repose sur les technologies satellitaires, et non sur les systèmes radars au sol utilisés auparavant, ce qui permet aux contrôleurs aériens de localiser les avions avec davantage de précision et de fournir aux pilotes des informations plus détaillées. = English: It uses satellite-based technology as opposed to older ground-radar-based technology to allow air traffic controllers to pinpoint aircraft with greater precision and give pilots more accurate information.	Even traditionally, though, not all Sámi have been involved in big scale reindeer husbandry, but lived from fishing, hunting and similar, having reindeer mostly as draft animals.	Even though, according to tradition, not all Sami people were involved in large-scale reindeer herding, they lived off fishing, hunting and other similar activities, while using reindeer mainly as draught animals.
French: Soyez ferme dans le refus des avances hommes, et n'ayez pas peur de tenir bon (différences culturelles ou non, ça ne veut pas dire que c'est acceptable !) = English: Be firm in turning down men, and don't be afraid to stand your ground (cultural differences or not, it doesn't make it ok!).	Last month a presidential commission recommended the prior CEP's resignation as part of a package of measures to move the country towards new elections.	Last month, a presidential commission recommended the dissolution of the previous CEP as part of a package of measures to take the country on the path of new elections.
French: Il y a de nombreuses répercussions sociales et politiques telles que l'utilisation du système métrique, le passage de l'absolutisme au républicanisme, le nationalisme et la conviction que le pays appartient au peuple et non à un seul dirigeant. = English: There are a lot of social and political effects such as the use of metric system, a shift from absolutism to republicanism, nationalism and the belief the country belongs to the people not to one sole ruler.	He built a WiFi door bell, he said.	He says he designed a Wi-Fi doorbell.
French: Tommy Dreamer a déclaré : « Luna a été la première reine de l'extrême. Mon premier manager. Luna est décédée la nuit de deux lunes. Un moment unique, tout comme elle. Une femme forte. » = English: Tommy Dreamer said "Luna was the first Queen of Extreme. My first manager. Luna passed away on the night of two moons. Pretty unique just like her. Strong woman."	A well rounded athlete, the tiger can climb (though not well), swim, leap great distances and pull with five times the force of a strong human.	Balanced athlete, the tiger can climb (but sometimes with difficulty), swim, jump great distances and pull with five times the strength of a powerful human.
French: La cuisine majorquine, comme celle des zones similaires de la Méditerranée, est basée sur le pain, les légumes et la viande (surtout du porc), et fait appel à l'huile d'olive. = English: Majorcan cuisine, like that of similar zones in the Mediterranean, is based on bread, vegetables and meat (specially pork), and uses olive oil throughout.	Members of a subculture often signal their membership through a distinctive and symbolic use of style, which includes fashions, mannerisms, and argot.	Members of a subculture often signal their membership by distinctive and symbolic use of style, which includes modes, mannerisms and slang.
French: Il est donc probable que la notation a été ajoutée simplement comme une étiquette. = English: So, it is likely that the notation was added simply as a label.	At the beginning dress was heavily influenced by the Byzantine culture in the east.	At the beginning, the dress was strongly influenced by the Byzantine culture, to the east.
French: Ellsworth Land est la région méridionale de la péninsule, délimitée par la mer de Bellingshausen. = English: Ellsworth Land is the region south of the Peninsula, bounded by the Bellingshausen Sea.	Martelly swore in a new Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) of nine members yesterday.	Martelly has installed a new Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) composed of nine members.
French: Les bus inter-districts sont souvent complets, aussi est-il conseillé d'acheter un ticket quelques jours à l'avance. = English: As the inter-district buses are often full, it is advisable to purchase a ticket a few days in advance.	Rolando Mendoza fired his M16 rifle at the tourists.	Rolando Mendoza shot at the tourists with his M16 rifle.
French: D’après les théories du Romantisme, la géographie aurait façonné les individus et, avec le temps, des coutumes et une culture liées à cette géographie seraient apparues. Celles-ci, en harmonie avec les lieux occupés par la société, seraient préférables aux lois imposées arbitrairement. = English: In the context of Romanticism, the geography molded individuals, and over time customs and culture related to that geography arose, and these, being in harmony with the place of the society, were better than arbitrarily imposed laws.	Safaris are perhaps the greatest tourism draw in Africa and the highlight for many visitors.	Safaris may be the biggest tourist attraction in Africa and the most memorable moment for many visitors.
French: Des animaux rares tels que l'ours brun d'Europe, le loup, l'aigle, le hibou, le lynx, le chat sauvage et le grand tétras peuvent y être aperçus, ainsi que bien d'autres espèces communes. = English: Rare fauna such as the European brown bear, wolf, eagle, owl, lynx, wild cat and capercaillie can be found there, along with many more common species	Travellers are strongly advised to be aware of any risk of severe weather affecting their area as they may affect any travel plans.	It is strongly recommended that travellers check the weather forecast for their destination region, as this may affect the routes they plan to take.
French: Pourtant, l'espagnol est également largement utilisé dans les transports publics et autres installations. = English: Yet, Spanish is also widely used in public transport and other facilities.	The cities of Harappa and Mohenjo-daro had a flush toilet in almost every house, attached to a sophisticated sewage system.	The cities of Harappa and Mohenjo-daro had toilets equipped with a flush in almost every house, connected to a sophisticated sewer system.
French: Les limitations de vitesse affichées sont sensiblement plus basses que dans les tronçons précédents et suivants – généralement de 35 à 40 mph (56-64 km/h) – et leur respect strict est encore plus important qu'auparavant. = English: Posted speed limits are noticeably lower than in previous and subsequent sections — commonly 35-40 mph (56-64 km/h) — and strict obedience to them is even more important than otherwise.	It was to last for the next 40 years and would be fought for real, by proxy armies, on battlefields from Africa to Asia, in Afghanistan, Cuba and many other places.	It was to last for the next 40 years and see real clashes, through proxy armies, on battlefields in Africa and Asia, in Afghanistan, Cuba and many other places.
French: Schneider a témoigné par liaison vidéo depuis une base de l’USAF dans son pays. = English: Schneider testified via videolink from a USAF base in his homeland.	Four skiers in the women's sitting group failed to finish their runs, and 45 of the 117 total skiers in the Giant Slalom failed to rank in the race.	In the category of women in sitting skiing, four skiers did not manage to complete their course; in the slalom giant, 45 skiers out of a total of 117 in this race did not manage to qualify.
French: Les îles Shetland du Sud, découvertes en 1819, sont revendiquées par plusieurs nations et possèdent le plus grand nombre de stations de recherche et seize d'entre elles sont actives en 2020. = English: South Shetland Islands, discovered in 1819, are claimed by several nations and have the most bases, with sixteen active in 2020.	In the 16th century Paraguay, formerly called "The Giant Province of the Indies", was born as a result of the encounter of Spanish conquerors with the native indigenous groups.	In the 16th century, Paraguay, once known as the "Giant Province of the Indies", was born from the encounter between Spanish conquerors and indigenous populations.
French: Les historiens ont critiqué les politiques passées du FBI pour avoir concentré les ressources sur des affaires faciles à résoudre, en particulier les affaires de voitures volées, avec l'intention d'augmenter le taux de réussite de l'agence. = English: Historians have criticized past FBI policies for focusing resources on cases which are easy to solve, especially stolen car cases, with the intent of boosting the agency's success rate.	It has been known for a long time that different types of brain damage, traumas, lesions, and tumours affect behaviour and cause changes in some mental functions.	It is well known that different types of damage, lesions, tumors and brain trauma affect behavior and cause changes in certain mental functions.
French: Au nord, la région est délimitée par le Sahel, et au sud et à l'ouest par l'océan Atlantique. = English: In the north the region is bounded by the Sahel, and in the south and west by the Atlantic Ocean.	Today, Timbuktu is an impoverished town, although its reputation makes it a tourist attraction, and it has an airport.	Today, Tombouctou is a poor city, although its reputation makes it a tourist attraction, and it has an airport.
French: Cela leur donne un plus grand nombre de petits endroits pour se cacher des prédateurs. = English: This gives them a wider range of small places to hide from predators.	When returning home after living abroad, you've adapted to the new culture and lost some of your habits from your home culture.	When you come back home after living abroad, you have already adapted to the new culture and have lost some habits of your original culture.
French: Le dégagement vertical sous le pont est de 15 mètres. La structure a été achevée en août 2011, mais elle n'a été ouverte à la circulation qu'en mars 2017. = English: The vertical clearance under the bridge is 15 meters. Construction was completed in August 2011, it didn't open to traffic until March 2017.	As the inter-district buses are often full, it is advisable to purchase a ticket a few days in advance.	Inter-district buses are often full, so it is recommended to buy a ticket a few days in advance.
French: Ce terme dérive d’une ancienne familiarité avec les punaises de lit, qui sont des insectes très adaptés pour parasiter les humains. = English: This term derives from ancient familiarity with Bed-bugs, which are insects highly adapted to parasitize humans.	There were no large forests in the land of Canaan, so wood was extremely expensive.	As there were no large forests in Canaan, wood was extremely expensive.
French: Le site d’information TMZ affirme que le photographe a arrêté son véhicule de l’autre côté du boulevard Sepulveda et a tenté de prendre des photos de l’arrêt de police avant de traverser la route et de continuer, incitant l’agent de police de la California Highway Patrol à  lui ordonner de repasser, à deux reprises. = English: Entertainment news website TMZ understands the photographer stopped his vehicle on the other side of Sepulveda Boulevard and attempted to take pictures of the police stop before crossing the road and continuing, prompting the California Highway Patrol police officer conducting the traffic stop to order him back across, twice.	His teammate Fernando Alonso was in the lead for most of the race, but ended it right after his pit-stop, probably because a badly tucked right front wheel.	Alonso’s teammate Fernando Alonso dominated the race for the entirety of it, but his pit stop ended that dominance, perhaps due to a loose right front wheel.
French: Cependant, ce n'est pas vrai. Bien qu'il y ait une inscription au dos du document, ce n'est pas une carte au trésor. = English: However, that is not true. Although there is something written on the back of the document, it is not a treasure map.	The researchers suggested that, even though this is the tail of a young dinosaur, the sample shows adult plumage and not a chick's down.	The scientists specify that it is indeed the tail of a juvenile dinosaur, but the sample reveals a plumage belonging to an adult individual, and not to a young one.
French: Dans un carrosse, ils sont rentrés à Paris entourés d’une foule de gens qui hurlent et crient des menaces contre le roi et la reine. = English: In a carriage, they traveled back to Paris surrounded by a mob of people screaming and shouting threats against the King and Queen.	If crossing the Northern Baltic in winter, check the cabin location, as going through ice causes quite horrible noise for those most affected.	If you cross the northern Baltic Sea in winter, be sure to check the location of the cabin, as the crossing of the ice can cause unbearable noise at the most exposed cabins.
French: Le chauffeur du camion, âgé de 64 ans, n’a pas été blessé dans l’accident. = English: The truck driver, who is aged 64, was not injured in the crash.	Efforts to search for the crash site are being met by bad weather and harsh terrain.	Efforts to find the crash site are hampered by bad weather and the rugged terrain.
French: Les soldats de la paix de l'ONU, qui sont arrivés en Haïti après le tremblement de terre de 2010, sont accusés de la propagation de la maladie qui a commencé près du campement de la troupe. = English: UN peacekeepers, whom arrived in Haiti after the 2010 earthquake, are being blamed for the spread of the disease which started near the troop's encampment.	The satellite in space gets the call and then reflects it back down, almost instantly.	The satellite receives the call in space and then sends it back to Earth, almost instantly.
French: La police a déclaré qu’il semblerait que le corps se trouvait là depuis un jour environ. = English: Police said that the body appeared to have been there for about a day.	The U.S. Corps of Engineers estimated that 6 inches of rainfall could breach the previously damaged levees.	According to the U.S. Corps of Engineers, a 6-inch rainfall could open a breach in the previously damaged levees.
French: Comme pour tous les parcs nationaux sud-africains, il existe des droits d’entrée et de conservation quotidiens pour le parc. = English: As with all South African National Parks, there are daily conservation and entry fees for the park.	Resembling a television remote, the controller uses two sensors placed near the user's television to triangulate its position in three-dimensional space.	Identical to a television remote control, the device uses two sensors placed near the user's television to triangulate its position in three-dimensional space.
French: Les accidents aériens sont fréquents en Iran, qui dispose d'une flotte vieillissante et mal entretenue autant pour les vols civils que militaires. = English: Air accidents are common in Iran, which has an aging fleet that is poorly maintained both for civil and military operations.	In many other cities of Italy and in the rest of the world, particularly in Poland, similar setups were made, which were viewed by a great number of people.	In many other cities in Italy and in the rest of the world, especially in Poland, similar installations have been made and have been seen by a large number of people.
French: Les données neurobiologiques fournissent des preuves matérielles pour une approche théorique de l'étude de la cognition. Elles permettent donc de réduire le champ de recherche et de le rendre beaucoup plus précis. = English: Neurobiological data provide physical evidence for a theoretical approach to the investigation of cognition. Therefore it narrows the research area and makes it much more exact.	They are almost all sandy beaches with safe swimming, and most have shade provided by pohutukawa trees.	Almost all beaches are sandy and safe for swimming, and most are shaded by pohutukawa.
French: En raison du nombre important de personnes présentes, il n'a pas été possible pour tout le monde d'assister aux funérailles sur la place Saint-Pierre. = English: The number of people present was so large that it was not possible for everybody to gain access to the funeral in St. Peter's Square.	Generally speaking, there is no point in even looking for discounts for business or first-class seats on direct flights from A to B.	In general, it is pointless to try to obtain discounts for business class or first class seats on direct flights from A to B.
French: Soyez ferme dans le refus des avances hommes, et n'ayez pas peur de tenir bon (différences culturelles ou non, ça ne veut pas dire que c'est acceptable !) = English: Be firm in turning down men, and don't be afraid to stand your ground (cultural differences or not, it doesn't make it ok!).	Apia was founded in the 1850s and has been the official capital of Samoa since 1959.	Apia was founded in the 1850s and is the official capital of Samoa since 1959.
French: Vous pouvez utiliser des boda-boda (moto taxi) pour vous déplacer dans Goma. Le prix normal (local) est d’environ 500 francs congolais pour une petite course. = English: You can use boda-boda (motorcycle taxi) to get around Goma. The normal (local) price is ~500 Congolese Francs for the short ride.	The tenth named storm of the Atlantic Hurricane season, Subtropical Storm Jerry, formed in the Atlantic Ocean today.	Subtropical Storm Jerry, the 10th named storm of the Atlantic hurricane season, formed today in the Atlantic Ocean.
French: Tout au long des années 1960, Brzezinski a travaillé pour John F. Kennedy en tant que conseiller, puis pour l'administration de Lyndon B. Johnson. = English: Throughout 1960s, Brzezinski worked for John F. Kennedy as his advisor and then the Lyndon B. Johnson administration.	During the struggle for independence organised by the Mau movement, a peaceful gathering in the town resulted in the killing of the paramount chief Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III.	The supreme chief Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III was assassinated during a peaceful gathering in the city, during the Mau movement's struggle for independence.
French: L’Australien Mitchell Gourley est arrivé 11e du Super-G debout homme. Le Tchèque Oldrich Jelinek s'est classé 16e au Super-G assis homme. = English: Australia's Mitchell Gourley finished eleventh in the men's standing Super-G. Czech competitor Oldrich Jelinek finished sixteenth in the men's sitting Super-G.	According to Japan's nuclear agency, radioactive caesium and iodine has been identified at the plant.	According to the Japanese nuclear agency, radioactive cesium and iodine have been identified at the plant.
French: Les satellites, qui pesaient tous les deux plus de 450 kg et se déplaçaient à environ 28000 km/h, sont entrés en collision à 790 km au-dessus de la Terre. = English: The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	Turkey would also take over guarding captured ISIS fighters which, the statement said, European nations have refused to repatriate.	Turkey would also take custody of ISIS fighters captured by the coalition, according to the statement, which said European nations had refused to repatriate them.
French: Les porcs sont porteurs de la maladie, qui est ensuite transmise à l'homme par les moustiques. = English: The disease is carried by pigs, which then migrates to humans through mosquitos.	The local tap water is perfectly safe to drink, but bottled water is easy to find if you are fearful.	You can drink the local tap water without any worries, but you can easily find bottled water if you have any concerns about it.
French: Et depuis, le gouvernement fédéral a pris les devants en se chargeant du financement du Mersey Hospital à Devonport, en Tasmanie. Le gouvernement d'état et certains parlementaires ont qualifié cet acte de farce à l'approche des élections de novembre. = English: Ever since the Federal Government stepped in to take over funding of the Mersey hospital in Devonport, Tasmania, the state government and some federal MPs have criticised this act as a stunt in the prelude to the federal election to be called by November.	It may also be beneficial for one to buy a Wild Card, which provides entry to either selections of parks in South Africa or all of the South African National Parks.	It can be advantageous to buy a Wild Card which gives access to certain parks in South Africa, as well as all the national parks in South Africa.
French: Il s'agit d'une pratique courante ailleurs au Royaume-Uni, mais la justice écossaise fonctionne différemment et les tribunaux ont considéré que la publication de photos était potentiellement préjudiciable. = English: This is common practice elsewhere in the UK but Scottish justice works differently and courts have viewed publication of photos as potentially prejudicial.	Several large television screens were installed in various places in Rome to let the people watch the ceremony.	Several large television screens have been installed in different places in Rome to allow people to watch the ceremony.
French: Les scientifiques affirment que l'explosion causée par la collision a été massive. = English: Scientists say the explosion caused by the collision was massive.	He was robbed by pirates, attacked in Tibet by a rabid dog, escaped marriage in Nepal and was arrested in India.	He was stolen by pirates, attacked in Tibet by a rabid dog, escaped a marriage in Nepal and was arrested in India.
French: Son autre course, le slalom géant, lui a permis de terminer à la dixième place du groupe des femmes assises avec un temps combiné de 4:41.30, soit 2:11.60 minutes de moins que l'Autrichienne Claudia Loesch, arrivée première, et 1:09.02 minutes de moins que la Hongroise Gyöngyi Dani, arrivée neuvième. = English: Her other race, the Giant Slalom, saw her finish in tenth in the women's sitting group with a combined run time of 4:41.30, 2:11.60 minutes slower than first place finisher Austrian Claudia Loesch and 1:09.02 minutes slower than the ninth place finisher Gyöngyi Dani of Hungary.	Murray lost the first set in a tie break after both men held each and every serve in the set.	Murray lost the first set in a tie break after both men held their service throughout the set.
French: Mais indépendamment de sa découverte, des tribus esquimaudes y vivaient déjà à l’époque. = English: But regardless of his discovery, Eskimo tribes were already living there at the time.	The tiger is in the same group (Genus Panthera) as lions, leopards, and jaguars. These four cats are the only ones who can roar.	The tiger is part of the same family (genus Panthera) as lions, leopards and jaguars. These four felines are the only ones capable of roaring.
French: La plupart des bâtiments limitrophes du complexe ont été reconstruits afin d'offrir aux touristes un meilleur aperçu de leur aspect originel. = English: Most of the buildings on the edges of the complex have been rebuilt in order to give tourists a better idea of how they originally appeared.	But the consumer market on laptop computer will be radically varied and changed after ASUS was awarded in the 2007 Taiwan Sustainable Award by Executive Yuan of the Republic of China.	But the market for laptop computers will be profoundly disrupted and diversified after ASUS was awarded the 2007 Taiwan Sustainable Award by the Executive Yuan of the Republic of China.
French: Cela leur donne un plus grand nombre de petits endroits pour se cacher des prédateurs. = English: This gives them a wider range of small places to hide from predators.	Italian is also the everyday language used by most of those who work in the state while Latin is often used in religious ceremonies.	Italian is also the everyday language used by most people who work in the state, while Latin is often used in religious ceremonies.
French: Une bombe a explosé devant le bureau du gouverneur général. = English: One bomb exploded outside the governor general's office.	Dr. Malar Balasubramanian, 29, was found in Blue Ash, Ohio, a suburb approximately 15 miles north of Cincinnati lying on the ground beside the road in a T-shirt and underwear in an apparently heavily medicated state.	Dr Malar Balasubramanian, 29, was found lying on the ground by the side of the road in Blue Ash, Ohio, a suburb about 15 miles north of Cincinnati. He was wearing a T-shirt and underwear, apparently in a very drugged state.
French: Chaque matin, les gens quittent les petites villes de campagne en voiture pour se rendre à leur lieu de travail et croisent d'autres gens qui vont travailler dans la campagne qu'ils viennent de quitter. = English: Every morning, people leave small country towns in cars to go their workplace and are passed by others whose work destination is the place they have just left.	In 1683, Qing dynasty (1644-1912) forces take control of Taiwan’s western and northern coastal areas and declared Taiwan as a province of the Qing Empire in 1885.	In 1683, the forces of the Qing dynasty (1644-1912) took control of the western and northern coastal areas of Taiwan and declared it a province of the Qing Empire in 1885.
French: Un ancien policier philippin a pris en otage des touristes de Hong Kong en détournant leur bus à Manille, la capitale des Philippines. = English: A former Filipino policeman has kept Hong Kong tourists hostage by hijacking their bus in Manila, the capital of the Philippines.	When all available resources are effectively used across the functional departments of an organization, creativity and ingenuity can transpire.	When all available resources are used efficiently in the functional services of an organization, creativity and ingenuity can be fully expressed.
French: Dans le cimetière, on trouve d'intéressantes sculptures en marbre représentant des colombes sur certaines tombes. = English: In the churchyard, there are interesting marble sculptures of doves over some tombs.	Research in AI involves making machines to automate tasks that require intelligent behavior.	The research in artificial intelligence aims at automating tasks that require a smart approach by machines.
French: Il en va de même pour l'armée, car le classement des armées n'est plus basé sur la classe, mais sur le calibre. = English: Same goes for the military because instead of army rankings being based on class they were now based on cailaber.	While visiting the monasteries, women are required to wear skirts covering the knees and have their shoulders covered, too.	When visiting a monastery, women must wear skirts that cover their knees and have their shoulders covered.
French: Bien que l'Intelligence Artificielle soit souvent fortement connotée science-fiction, elle représente une part très importante des sciences informatiques qui étudient le comportement, l'apprentissage et l'adaptation intelligente d'une machine. = English: Although AI has a strong connotation of science fiction, AI forms a very important branch of computer science, dealing with behavior, learning and intelligent adaptation in a machine.	For some festivals, the vast majority of the attendants to music festivals decide to camp on site, and most attendants consider it a vital part of the experience.	At some music festivals, the majority of participants decide to camp on site, and most consider it an integral part of the experience.
French: Bien que ce stéréotype soit souvent inexact, la meilleure façon de s'entendre à Paris reste de se comporter au mieux, d'agir comme quelqu'un de bien élevé. Cela facilitera considérablement vos déplacements. = English: While this is often only an inaccurate stereotype, the best way to get along in Paris still is to be on your best behavior, acting like someone who is "bien élevé" (well brought up). It will make getting about considerably easier.	There were also toilets in ancient Egypt, Persia and China. In Roman civilization, toilets were sometimes part of public bath houses where men and women were together in mixed company.	There were also toilets in ancient Egypt, Persia and China. In the Roman civilization, toilets sometimes were part of public baths where men and women mingled.
French: Après tout, le chef est responsable en dernier ressort du succès et de l’échec de l’équipe. = English: After all, the leader is ultimately responsible for the success and failure of the team.	It is nearly impossible to exchange Falklands currency outside of the islands, so exchange money prior to leaving the islands.	It is almost impossible to exchange Falkland Islands money outside the islands, so change it before leaving the islands.
French: Et depuis, le gouvernement fédéral a pris les devants en se chargeant du financement du Mersey Hospital à Devonport, en Tasmanie. Le gouvernement d'état et certains parlementaires ont qualifié cet acte de farce à l'approche des élections de novembre. = English: Ever since the Federal Government stepped in to take over funding of the Mersey hospital in Devonport, Tasmania, the state government and some federal MPs have criticised this act as a stunt in the prelude to the federal election to be called by November.	Handicraft products might be defined as antiques, though they are younger than similar mass-produced goods.	Handmade products can be considered antiques, even if they are less old than similar industrial products.
French: Depuis l’arrivée de l’homme aux Galapagos, de nombreux mammifères ont été introduits, notamment des chèvres, des chevaux, des vaches, des rats, des chats et des chiens. = English: Since the arrival of man to the Galapagos, many mammals have been introduced including goats, horses, cows, rats, cats and dogs.	Severe weather is the generic term for any dangerous weather phenomenon with the potential to cause damage, serious social disruption, or loss of human life.	Violent weather is a generic term for any dangerous meteorological phenomenon that can cause damage, serious social disruption or loss of human life.
French: L'équipe nationale italienne de football est, avec l'équipe nationale allemande, la deuxième équipe la plus titrée du monde et elle a remporté la Coupe du monde de la FIFA en 2006. = English: Italy's national football, along with German national football team is the second most successful team in the world and were the FIFA World Cup champions in 2006.	34 per cent of those in the poll share this view, wanting Queen Elizabeth II to be Australia's last monarch.	34 % of the people surveyed share this view, and want Queen Elizabeth II to be the last monarch to rule Australia.
French: Les larges boulevards, les bâtiments vitrés et les centres commerciaux modernes sont parsemés de toits traditionnels en tuiles rouges, du marché du XVIIIe siècle, et de vieilles mosquées et églises, bien que la ville ait une atmosphère qui rappelle plus l'Europe méditerranéenne que la Turquie traditionnelle. = English: The broad boulevards, glass-fronted buildings and modern shopping centers are dotted with traditional red-tiled roofs, the 18th century market, and old mosques and churches, although the city has an atmosphere more of Mediterranean Europe than traditional Turkey.	The ruling party, South West Africa People's Organisation (SWAPO), also retained a majority in the parliamentary elections.	The ruling party, the South West African People's Organization (SWAPO), also managed to retain a majority in the legislative elections.
French: Ne défigurez pas le site en marquant ou en grattant des graffitis sur les structures. = English: Do not deface the site by marking or scratching graffiti into structures.	Ever since the Federal Government stepped in to take over funding of the Mersey hospital in Devonport, Tasmania, the state government and some federal MPs have criticised this act as a stunt in the prelude to the federal election to be called by November.	And since then, the federal government has taken the lead by funding the Mersey Hospital in Devonport, Tasmania. The state government and some parliamentarians have described this act as a farce in the run-up to the November elections.
French: Elle est plus fine au niveau des mers et plus épaisse sous les continents. = English: It is thinner under the maria and thicker under the highlands.	During the Revolutionary War, the thirteen states first formed a weak central government—with the Congress being its only component—under the Articles of Confederation.	During the Revolutionary War, the thirteen states first formed a weak central government — the Congress being its only component — under the Articles of Confederation.
French: Pendant les années 1980, il a travaillé sur des spectacles tels que Taxi, Cheers et The Tracy Ullman Show. = English: During the 1980s he worked on shows such as Taxi, Cheers, and The Tracy Ullman Show.	The announcement was made after Trump had a phone conversation with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.	The announcement was made after President Trump had a telephone conversation with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.
French: La plupart des monastères fournissent des étoles aux femmes qui arrivent sans rien, mais si vous apportez la vôtre, et qu'en plus elle arbore des couleurs vives, vous aurez droit à un sourire du moine ou de la nonne à l'entrée. = English: Most of the monasteries do provide wraps for women who come unprepared, but if you bring your own, especially one with bright colors, you'll get a smile from the monk or nun at the entrance.	Soon after the outbreak of hostilities, Britain initiated a naval blockade of Germany.	Shortly after the beginning of hostilities, Britain established a naval blockade against Germany.
French: La surface de la lune est constituée de pierres et de poussière. Sa couche extérieure est appelée la croûte. = English: The surface of the Moon is made of rocks and dust. The outer layer of the Moon is called the crust.	Liggins followed in his father’s footsteps and entered a career in medicine.	Liggins followed in his father's footsteps and became a doctor.
French: Les dépenses de guerre de l'impérialisme américain dans la conquête des Philippines ont été payées par le peuple philippin lui-même. = English: The war expenditures of U.S. imperialism in the conquest of the Philippines were paid for by the Filipino people themselves.	Each year, dozens of visitors are injured because they didn't keep a proper distance. These animals are large, wild, and potentially dangerous, so give them their space.	Every year, dozens of visitors are injured because they did not keep a sufficient distance. These animals are large, wild and potentially dangerous, so give them space.
French: L'Afrique du Sud, à la tête du classement, a commencé sur une bonne note en s'imposant 26 à 0 face à la Zambie, 5e du classement. = English: Tournament top seeds South Africa started on the right note when they had a comfortable 26 - 00 win against 5th seeded Zambia.	Airlines know well that there is a certain core group of flyers who are willing to pay top dollar for the privilege of getting somewhere fast and in comfort, and charge accordingly.	Airlines know very well that they can count on a certain type of travellers who are willing to pay very high prices for the privilege of speed and comfort, and they set their prices accordingly.
French: Ils ont été contraints de payer des impôts au régime colonial américain pour couvrir une grande partie des dépenses et des intérêts des obligations émises au nom du gouvernement philippin par les établissements bancaires de Wall Street. = English: They were compelled to pay taxes to the U.S. colonial regime to defray a major part of the expenditures and the interest on bonds floated in the name of the Philippine government through the Wall Street banking houses.	The hospital has followed protocol for infection control, including separating the patient from others to prevent possible infection of others.	The hospital followed the protocol for infection prevention, including isolation of the patient to prevent possible infection of other patients.
French: Construite par les Égyptiens au cours du troisième millénaire avant J-C, la Grande Pyramide est l'une des nombreuses structures géantes érigées en l'honneur des pharaons décédés. = English: Built by the Egyptians in the third century BCE, the Great Pyramid is one of many large pyramid structures built to honor dead Pharaoh.	Chambers had sued God for "widespread death, destruction and terrorization of millions upon millions of the Earth's inhabitants."	Chambers had sued God for "massive, widespread, destruction and terror inflicted on millions and millions of inhabitants of the Earth."
French: L’italien est également la langue de tous les jours utilisée par la plupart des personnes qui travaillent dans l’état, tandis que le latin est souvent utilisé dans les cérémonies religieuses. = English: Italian is also the everyday language used by most of those who work in the state while Latin is often used in religious ceremonies.	If the country you will be visiting becomes subject to a travel advisory, your travel health insurance or your trip cancellation insurance may be affected.	If the country you are travelling to is subject to a travel warning issued by your government, your overseas health insurance or your travel cancellation insurance may be affected.
French: Un dîner simple et populaire, surtout en été, est le Pa amb Oli : du pain avec de l'huile d'olive, de la tomate et tous les condiments disponibles, tels que le fromage, le thon, etc. = English: A simple popular dinner, especially during the summer, is the Pa amb Oli: Bread with olive oil, tomato, and any available condiments such as cheese, tunafish, etc.	The broad boulevards, glass-fronted buildings and modern shopping centers are dotted with traditional red-tiled roofs, the 18th century market, and old mosques and churches, although the city has an atmosphere more of Mediterranean Europe than traditional Turkey.	The wide boulevards, glass buildings and modern shopping centres are dotted with traditional red tile roofs, the 18th century market, and old mosques and churches, although the city has an atmosphere that more resembles the Mediterranean Europe than the traditional Turkey.
French: La ségrégation et la recombinaison font alterner les variations entre les deux bassins à chaque génération. = English: Segregation and recombination shuffle variation back and forth between the two pools with each generation.	Researchers from Princeton University in the United States and Uppsala University in Sweden reported the new species evolved in just two generations, though this process had been believed to take much longer, due to breeding between an endemic Darwin finch, Geospiza fortes, and the immigrant cactus finch, Geospiza conirostris.	Researchers from Princeton University in the United States and Uppsala University in Sweden have indicated that the new species evolved in only two generations, although this process was estimated to be much longer, following the reproduction between an endemic Darwin's finch, Geospiza fortis, and the immigrant conical-billed finch, Geospiza conirostris.
French: La région abrite également une très grande variété d'espèces animales et d'oiseaux. = English: The area is also home to an extremely wide variety of animal and bird species.	It's worth half an hour to stroll about the intriguing village.	It is worth taking a half-hour walk through this fascinating village.
French: Les bus inter-districts sont souvent complets, aussi est-il conseillé d'acheter un ticket quelques jours à l'avance. = English: As the inter-district buses are often full, it is advisable to purchase a ticket a few days in advance.	With 17,000 islands to choose from, Indonesian food is an umbrella term covering a vast variety of regional cuisines found across the nation.	Indonesia, with 17,000 islands, has a wide variety of regional cuisines.
French: Il peut être fait très fin, et collé sur un autre métal. Il peut être si fin qu'il a parfois été utilisé pour décorer les images peintes à la main dans les livres appelés « manuscrits enluminés ». = English: It can be made very thin, and stuck onto other metal. It can be made so thin that it was sometimes used to decorate the hand-painted pictures in books called "illuminated manuscripts".	Barcelona's official languages are Catalan and Spanish. About a half prefer to speak Catalan, a vast majority understands it, and virtually everyone knows Spanish.	The official languages of Barcelona are Catalan and Spanish. About half the population prefers to speak Catalan, a large majority understands it, and practically everyone is able to speak Spanish.
French: Tant que vous restez dans cette zone, vous pouvez généralement traverser les frontières sans repasser par les points de contrôle des passeports. = English: As long as you stay in this zone, you can generally cross borders without going through passport control checkpoints again.	Famous singers across the country presented bhajans, or devotional songs, to Shri Shyam's feet.	Famous singers from all over the country presented bhajans, or devotional songs, to the feet of Shri Shyam.
French: Madagascar est de loin le plus grand pays, et même un continent à lui tout seul, s'agissant de faune. = English: Madagascar is by far the biggest, and a continent on its own when it comes to wildlife.	Other subjects on the agenda in Bali include saving the world's remaining forests, and sharing technologies to help developing nations grow in less-polluting ways.	Among the other items on the agenda in Bali are the protection of the last forests in the world and the sharing of technologies to help developing countries pursue their growth in a less polluting way.
French: Tous les navires furent coulés, à l’exception d’un croiseur britannique. Près de 200 Américains et Allemands perdirent la vie. = English: All the ships were sunk, except for one British cruiser. Nearly 200 American and German lives were lost.	However, they are not thought to have caused any damage to the shuttle.	However, it is not thought that they caused any damage to the shuttle.
French: Le temps violent est le terme générique pour tout phénomène météorologique dangereux susceptible de causer des dommages, de graves bouleversements sociaux ou la perte de vies humaines. = English: Severe weather is the generic term for any dangerous weather phenomenon with the potential to cause damage, serious social disruption, or loss of human life.	All these things and more highlight Ontario as what is considered quintessentially Canadian by outsiders.	All these measures, and many more, make Ontario what foreigners consider to be the quintessence of Canada.
French: Un nombre binaire ne peut avoir qu’une seule de deux valeurs : 0 ou 1. Ces nombres sont appelés des chiffres binaires, ou bits pour utiliser le jargon informatique. = English: A binary number can have only one of two values, i.e. 0 or 1, and these numbers are referred to as binary digits - or bits, to use computer jargon.	Hokuriku Electric Power Co. reported no effects from the earthquake and that the Number 1 and 2 reactors at its Shika nuclear power plant were shut down.	Hokuriku Electric Power Co. has reported that there were no effects from the earthquake and that the No. 1 and No. 2 reactors at its Shika nuclear power plant were shut down.
French: Située au sommet d'une des montagnes au nord de La Mecque, la grotte est totalement isolée du reste du monde. = English: Resting on the top of one of the mountains north of Mecca, the cave is completely isolated from the rest of the world.	You may also wish to consult the advice of governments other than your own, but their advice is designed for their citizens.	You can also seek advice from other governments than your own, but their advice is tailored to their citizens.
French: Selon l'agence nucléaire japonaise, du césium et de l'iode radioactifs ont été identifiés à la centrale. = English: According to Japan's nuclear agency, radioactive caesium and iodine has been identified at the plant.	Box jellyfish occur near beaches and near river estuaries from October to April north of 1770. They can occasionally be found outside these times.	From October to April, north of 1770, box jellyfish arrive near beaches and estuaries of rivers. They can also sometimes be seen outside this period.
French: Le travail effectué était principalement théorique, mais le programme a été écrit pour simuler les observations faites de la galaxie du Sagittaire. = English: The work done was mostly theoretical, but the program was written to simulate observations made of the Sagittarius galaxy.	Plants make oxygen which humans breathe, and they take in carbon-dioxide which humans exhale (that is, breathe out).	Plants produce oxygen that humans breathe, and they absorb carbon dioxide that humans exhale (i.e. exhale).
French: Le président américain George W. Bush a accueilli cette annonce avec satisfaction. = English: U.S. President George W. Bush welcomed the announcement.	U.S. President George W. Bush arrived in Singapore the morning of November 16, beginning a week-long tour of Asia.	U.S. President George W. Bush arrived in Singapore on the morning of November 16, beginning a week-long tour of Asia.
French: Cette découverte permet également de mieux comprendre l'évolution des plumes chez les oiseaux. = English: The find also grants insight into the evolution of feathers in birds.	Due to the long distance from the continent mammals were unable to make the journey making the giant tortoise the primary grazing animal in the Galapagos.	Due to the great distance that separates them from the continent, mammals could not complete the journey, making the giant tortoise the main grazing animal of the Galapagos.
French: Hu a encouragé les pays en voie de développement « à éviter l'ancienne méthode qui consistait à polluer d'abord et à nettoyer ensuite ». = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	The Internet combines elements of both mass and interpersonal communication.	Internet combines elements of mass communication and interpersonal communication.
French: En revanche, le service mobile est curieusement beaucoup plus fort ici que sur beaucoup d'autres parties de la route, par exemple les Pennsylvania Wilds. = English: Curiously, though, mobile phone service is much stronger here than along many other stretches of the route, e.g. the Pennsylvania Wilds.	Combined with its relative inaccessibility, "Timbuktu" has come to be used as a metaphor for exotic, distant lands.	Combined with its relative inaccessibility, "Tombouctou" has become a metaphor for distant and exotic countries.
French: Si vous voulez participer de près à l'événement musical, vous allez devoir arriver tôt pour trouver un aire de camping bien placée. = English: If you want to be close to the action you're going to have to get in early to get a camping site close to the music.	All citizens of Vatican City are Roman Catholic.	All citizens of the Vatican City are Catholic.
French: Nous percevons le système de placement familial comme une zone de sécurité pour ces enfants. = English: We perceive the Foster Care System to be a safety zone for these children.	Three more bombs exploded near government buildings in a period of two hours.	Three other bombs exploded near government buildings in the space of two hours.
French: Le plateau de Gizeh, ou « nécropole de Gizeh », dans la vallée des Morts en Égypte, regroupe plusieurs pyramides (la grande pyramide étant la plus imposante), plusieurs petits tombeaux, de nombreux temples et le grand Sphinx. = English: The Giza Plateau, or "Giza Necropolis" in the Egyptian Valley of the Dead contains several pyramids (of which the great pyramid is the largest), several small tombs, several temples, and the great Sphinx.	It also attacked anything that entered the water; even a giant dinosaur such as T. rex would be no match for it.	He also attacked anything that entered the water; even a giant dinosaur such as a T. rex was not up to the task.
French: Elle est plus fine au niveau des mers et plus épaisse sous les continents. = English: It is thinner under the maria and thicker under the highlands.	Apia is the capital of Samoa. The town is on the island of Upolu and has a population of just under 40,000.	Apia is the capital of Samoa. The city is located on the island of Upolu and has a population of about 40 000 inhabitants.
French: Cependant, le conducteur a été grièvement blessé à la tête. = English: However, the driver sustained serious injuries to the head.	In its early days, the show was featured solely at the long-running internet radio site TogiNet Radio, a site focused on talk radio.	Initially, the show was only broadcast on the venerable Internet radio site TogiNet Radio, a site devoted to spoken radio.
French: C'est une bonne occasion d'admirer les aurores boréales, car le ciel sera sombre pratiquement toute la journée. = English: This offers a good opportunity to see the Aurora borealis, as the sky will be dark more or less around the clock.	Once the ancient city of Smyrna, it is now a modern, developed, and busy commercial center, set around a huge bay and surrounded by mountains.	What was the ancient city of Smyrna is today a modern, developed and lively commercial center, set around an immense bay, surrounded by mountains.
French: Dans le climat chaud du Moyen-Orient, la maison n'était pas si importante. = English: In the warm climate of the Middle East, the house was not so important.	Everyone participates in society and uses transportation systems. Almost everyone complains about transportation systems.	Everyone is part of society and uses the transport systems. Almost everyone complains about the transport systems.
French: Comme la pollution lumineuse à leur époque n'était pas aussi préoccupant qu'aujourd'hui, ils sont généralement situés dans des villes ou sur des campus, plus faciles d'accès que ceux construits à l'époque moderne. = English: As light pollution in their heyday was not the kind of problem it is today, they are usually located in cities or at campuses, easier to reach than those built in modern times.	Over time, as the new population begins to adapt to their new environment, they start to look less and less like the other population.	Over time, as the new population adapts to its new environment, it starts to look less and less like the other population.
French: Un couple peut très bien estimer qu'il n'est pas dans leur intérêt, ni dans celui de l'enfant, de s'occuper de l'éducation d'un bébé. = English: A couple may decide it is not in their best interest, or in the interest of their child, to raise a baby.	Other biorhythm-based options involve drinking lots of fluid (particularly water or tea, a known diuretic) prior to sleep, forcing one to get up to urinate.	Other possibilities based on the biorythm include drinking a lot of liquids before going to bed (especially water or tea, which are known to be diuretics), which forces you to wake up to urinate.
French: Ils proposent généralement des offres spéciales de plats, de boissons et de divertissements afin de maintenir la bonne humeur des invités et de les garder sur place. = English: They usually have special food, drink and entertainment offers, to keep guests in a good mood, and keep them at the premise.	Tournament top seeds South Africa started on the right note when they had a comfortable 26 - 00 win against 5th seeded Zambia.	South Africa, at the top of the ranking, started off on a good note by defeating Zambia 26-0, ranked 5th. ###
French: Il peut être fait très fin, et collé sur un autre métal. Il peut être si fin qu'il a parfois été utilisé pour décorer les images peintes à la main dans les livres appelés « manuscrits enluminés ». = English: It can be made very thin, and stuck onto other metal. It can be made so thin that it was sometimes used to decorate the hand-painted pictures in books called "illuminated manuscripts".	During the 1976 selections he advised Carter on foreign policy, then served as National Security Advisor (NSA) from 1977 to 1981, succeeding Henry Kissinger.	During the 1976 selections, he advised Carter on foreign policy, then was National Security Advisor (NSA) from 1977 to 1981, succeeding Henry Kissinger.
French: Un médecin exerçant à l'hôpital pour enfants de Pittsburgh, en Pennsylvanie, a été accusé de meurtre avec circonstances aggravantes après que sa mère ait été retrouvée morte dans le coffre de sa voiture mercredi, selon les autorités de l'Ohio. = English: A doctor who worked at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania will be charged with aggravated murder after her mother was found dead in the trunk of her car Wednesday, authorities in Ohio say.	Using ships to transport goods is by far the most efficient way to move large amounts of people and goods across oceans.	Ships are by far the most efficient way to move large amounts of people and goods across the oceans.
French: Aussi, après la Révolution, les métiers furent ouverts à tous les candidats masculins, permettant aux plus ambitieux et aux plus talentueux de réussir. = English: Also after the Revolution occupations were open to all male applicants allowing the most ambitious and successful to succeed.	Coalition and Afghan troops moved into the area to secure the site and other coalition aircraft have been sent to assist.	Coalition and Afghan troops moved into the area to secure the site and an aircraft from another coalition was sent to assist.
French: Le Dr Ehud Ur, professeur de médecine à l'Université Dalhousie de Halifax (Nouvelle-Écosse) et président de la division clinique et scientifique de l'Association canadienne du diabète, a averti que la recherche en était encore à ses débuts. = English: Dr. Ehud Ur, professor of medicine at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia and chair of the clinical and scientific division of the Canadian Diabetes Association cautioned that the research is still in its early days.	After the dam was built in 1963, the seasonal floods that would spread sediment throughout the river were halted.	After the dam was built in 1963, the seasonal floods that were supposed to spread sediment into the river were stopped.
French: Les voyageurs à destination de pays où les taxes sont élevées peuvent parfois faire des économies considérables, en particulier sur des produits comme les boissons alcoolisées ou le tabac. = English: Travellers bound for countries with heavy taxation can sometimes save a considerable amount of money, especially on products such as alcoholic beverages and tobacco.	The Amazon River is the second longest and the biggest river on Earth. It carries more than 8 times as much water as the second biggest river.	The Amazon River is the second longest and largest river in the world. It carries more than eight times the volume of water of the second largest river.
French: Chambers avait poursuivi Dieu en justice pour « mise à mort généralisée, destruction et terreur infligées à des millions et des millions d'habitants de la Terre. » = English: Chambers had sued God for "widespread death, destruction and terrorization of millions upon millions of the Earth's inhabitants."	Their disciplined defence, ball handling skills and excellent team work made them stand out and it was clear that this was the team to beat.	Their well-drilled defence, their skill in controlling the ball and their formidable teamwork enabled them to distinguish themselves and it was obvious that they were the team to beat.
French: La seule manière de le faire parvenir plus rapidement était de l'envoyer en tant que bagage enregistré. Les réglementations aériennes ne les autoriseront pas à envoyer un bagage sans passager, et c'est là que vous intervenez. = English: The only way to get it through faster was to send it as checked luggage. Airline regulations will not allow them to send luggage without a passenger, which is where you come in.	In inland regions of Northern India and Pakistan, yogurt is commonly used in curries; in Southern India and some other coastal regions of the subcontinent, coconut milk is commonly used.	In the interior regions of northern India and Pakistan, yogurt is commonly used in curries; in southern India and some other coastal regions of the subcontinent, coconut milk is commonly used.
French: Il a ensuite été transféré au centre hospitalier Addenbrooke's Hospital de Cambridge. = English: He was subsequently relocated to Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge.	These theories suggest that people have certain needs and/or desires which have been internalized as they mature to adulthood.	These theories suggest that people have certain needs and/or desires that have been internalised as they mature into adulthood.
French: Le transport supplémentaire est inexistant et les trains de surface ne s’arrêteront pas à Wembley, et les parkings et parcs relais ne sont pas disponibles au sol. = English: No extra transport is being put on and overground trains will not stop at Wembley, and car parking and park-and-ride facilities are unavailable at the ground.	Check that the bus you are thinking of taking goes into Hebron and not just to the nearby Jewish settlement of Kiryat Arba.	Check that the bus you are considering taking goes to Hebron and not just the nearby Jewish settlement of Kiryat Arba.
French: C'est à cette époque que le titre de capitale de la mode fut transféré de Constantinople à Paris. = English: It was at this time that the transfer of the title of Fashion Capital from Constantinople to Paris was made.	The females are usually closely related to each other, being a large family of sisters and daughters.	Women are generally very close to each other, their family being composed of a large number of sisters and daughters.
French: Vous pouvez voir les pyramides dans l'obscurité et vous pouvez les voir en silence avant le début du spectacle. = English: You can see the pyramids in the dark and you can see them in silence before the show begins.	Casinos typically make many efforts to maximize time and money spent by guests. Windows and clocks are usually absent, and exits can be hard to find.	Casinos generally make many efforts to maximize the time and money spent by customers. There are rarely windows and clocks, and exits can be difficult to find.
French: Ils ont des pattes recouvertes d'écailles et pourvues de griffes, ils pondent des œufs et marchent sur leurs deux pattes arrière comme des T-Rex. = English: They have feet with scales and claws, they lay eggs, and they walk on their two back legs like a T-Rex.	The northern part or Sentinel Range has Antarctica's highest mountains, the Vinson Massif, peaking at 4892 m Mount Vinson.	The northern part, or Sentinel Range, includes the highest mountains in Antarctica, Mount Vinson, which reaches 4,892 m.
French: Plusieurs grands écrans de télévision ont été installés à différents endroits à Rome pour permettre aux gens de regarder la cérémonie. = English: Several large television screens were installed in various places in Rome to let the people watch the ceremony.	Some patients might have contracted the bug in the hospital, Dr. Moll thinks, and at least two were hospital health workers.	Some patients contracted the virus at the hospital, according to Dr Moll, and at least two of them were members of the hospital staff.
French: Chaque matin, les gens quittent les petites villes de campagne en voiture pour se rendre à leur lieu de travail et croisent d'autres gens qui vont travailler dans la campagne qu'ils viennent de quitter. = English: Every morning, people leave small country towns in cars to go their workplace and are passed by others whose work destination is the place they have just left.	Although wagonways merely consisted of parallel planks of wood, they allowed horses pulling them to achieve greater speeds and pull larger loads than on the slightly more rough roads of the day.	Although the tracks for wagons were simply made of parallel wooden planks, they allowed the horses pulling them to reach higher speeds and to pull heavier loads than on the slightly more hilly roads of the day.
French: Le bouddhisme tibétain est basé sur les enseignements de Bouddha, mais a été enrichi par le chemin de l'amour mahayana et par de nombreuses techniques du yoga indien. = English: The Tibetan Buddhism is based on the teachings of Buddha, but were extended by the mahayana path of love and by a lot of techniques from Indian Yoga.	It is Martelly's fifth CEP in four years.	This is the fifth PEC of Martelly in four years.
French: Consultez l'étiquette pour connaître les instructions de premiers secours spécifiques à ce poison. = English: Check the label for specific first aid instructions for that specific poison.	Duvall, who is married with two adult children, did not leave a big impression on Miller, to whom the story was related.	Duvall, who is married and has two adult children, did not make a good impression on Miller, who was told the story.
French: La règle des tiers, fort maltraitée et souvent tournée en ridicule, est une simple directive suscitant le dynamisme tout en offrant une protection à l’image. = English: The much-abused and often-ridiculed rule of thirds is a simple guideline creating dynamism while keeping a measure of order in an image.	The sometimes-violent protests were triggered by failure to hold elections, some due since 2011.	These sometimes violent protests were triggered by the lack of elections, some of which were due to take place in 2011.
French: Ensuite, Lakkha Singh a pris l'initiative de chanter les bhajans. = English: Then, Lakkha Singh took the lead in singing the bhajans.	This means you can visit the historic city for a couple of full days while returning and sleeping on the ship at night.	This means that you can visit the historic city for a few full days while returning to sleep on the boat at night.
French: Le pont sur l'Oyapock est un pont à haubans. Il surplombe le fleuve Oyapock pour relier les villes d'Oiapoque au Brésil et Saint-Georges-de-l'Oyapock en Guyane. = English: The Oyapock River Bridge is a cable-stayed bridge. It spans the Oyapock River to link the cities of Oiapoque in Brazil and Saint-Georges de l'Oyapock in French Guiana.	The station's web site describes the show as "old school radio theater with a new and outrageous geeky spin!"	The website of the station describes the show as a "old school radio drama with a new and scandalous geeky twist!"
French: Les critiques des libéraux sur l'effort de reconstruction se sont concentrées sur l'attribution de contrats de reconstruction à des personnes perçues comme des initiés de Washington. = English: Liberal criticism of the reconstruction effort has focused on the awarding of reconstruction contracts to perceived Washington insiders.	Science’s main goal is to figure out the way the world works through the scientific method. This method in fact guides most scientific research.	The main goal of science is to understand how the world works through the scientific method. This method actually guides most scientific research.
French: Il n'existe pas de définition universelle permettant de déterminer si un objet manufacturé est une antiquité. Certains organismes fiscaux définissent les biens de plus de 100 ans comme des antiquités. = English: There is no universal definition for which manufactured items are antiques. Some tax agencies define goods older than 100 years as antiques.	USA Gymnastics and the USOC have the same goal — making the sport of gymnastics, and others, as safe as possible for athletes to follow their dreams in a safe, positive and empowered environment.	USA Gymnastics and USOC have the same goal: to make gymnastics, as well as other sports, as safe as possible so that athletes can pursue their dreams in a safe, positive and empowering environment.
French: Dans de bonnes conditions, vous pourrez parcourir des distances un peu plus grandes qu'à pied – mais vous n'atteindrez que très rarement les vitesses du ski de fond sans un sac à dos lourd sur des pistes damées. = English: In good conditions you will be able to cover somewhat greater distances than walking – but only very seldom you will get the speeds of cross country skiing without a heavy backpack in groomed tracks.	An increasingly more popular option for those planning a gap-year is to travel and learn.	Those who plan a sabbatical year have the possibility to learn while traveling, and more and more of them choose this possibility.
French: L'élevage de rennes est un moyen de subsistance important chez les Samis et la culture qui entoure ce commerce revêt une grande importance pour beaucoup d'autres professions. = English: Reindeer husbandry is an important livelihood among the Sámi and the culture surrounding the trade is important also for many with other professions.	Sometimes special pyramid shaped towers, called ziggurats, were built to be a part of the temples.	Some pyramidal towers, ziggurats, were sometimes built as elements of a temple.
French: Dans l'essai PALM, le ZMapp a servi de témoin, ce qui signifie que les scientifiques l'ont utilisé comme base de référence et lui ont comparé les trois autres traitements. = English: In the PALM trial, ZMapp served as a control, meaning scientists used it as a baseline and compared the three other treatments to it.	At Thursday's keynote presentation of the Tokyo Game Show, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata unveiled the controller design for the company's new Nintendo Revolution console.	On Thursday, during the main presentation of the Tokyo Game Show, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata unveiled the design of the controller for the company's new Nintendo Revolution console.
French: Les excursions font partie intégrante de n'importe quelle classe d'école. Bien souvent, un enseignant aimerait emmener ses élèves dans des endroits où un voyage en bus n’est pas envisageable. = English: Field trips are a large part of any classroom. Quite often a teacher would love to take her students places to which a bus trip is not an option.	However, most signs are indicated only in Catalan because it is established by law as the first official language.	However, most of the signs are only in Catalan, as the law establishes that it is the first official language.
French: Internet allie des éléments de communication de masse et de communication interpersonnelle. = English: The Internet combines elements of both mass and interpersonal communication.	It is related to but usually not involving alpine style ski touring or mountaineering, the latter ones done in steep terrain and requiring much stiffer skis and boots.	It resembles alpine skiing and mountaineering, but does not usually incorporate these activities, which are performed on rugged terrain and require the use of much stiffer skis and boots.
French: Après sept jours de défaites électorales aux élections de mi-mandat, Bush a fait part de son projet d'élargir le commerce en Asie. = English: After a week of losses in the midterm election, Bush told an audience about the expansion of trade in Asia.	Books and magazines dealing with wilderness survival are common, but publications dealing with war zones are few.	Books and magazines about surviving in the wild are common, but publications about war zones are rare.
French: Les satellites, qui pesaient tous les deux plus de 450 kg et se déplaçaient à environ 28000 km/h, sont entrés en collision à 790 km au-dessus de la Terre. = English: The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	Alloys are basically a mixture of two or more metals. Don't forget that there are many elements on the periodic table.	Alloys are essentially a mixture of two or more metals. Remember that the periodic table has many elements.
French: Parmi les autres nominations figurent celles du meilleur film, du meilleur réalisateur, de la meilleure cinématographie, des meilleurs costumes, du meilleur montage, de la meilleure musique originale, des meilleurs décors, du meilleur montage sonore, du meilleur mixage et du meilleur scénario original. = English: The other nominations include Best Picture, Director, Cinematography, Costume Design, Film-editing, Original Score, Production Design, Sound Editing, Sound Mixing and Original Screenplay.	French electoral law rather strictly codifies the proceedings.	The French Electoral Code regulates the operations in a rather strict way.
French: Goma est une ville touristique située à l'extrême est de la République Démocratique du Congo, près du Rwanda. = English: Goma is a tourist city of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the extreme east near Rwanda.	Travel agents often have deals with specific hotels, although you may find it possible to book other forms of accommodation, like camping grounds, through a travel agent.	Travel agencies often have agreements with specific hotels, but you can also book through travel agencies of other types of accommodation, such as camping areas.
French: Les critères qui déterminent une sous-culture comme distincte peuvent être linguistiques, esthétiques, religieux, politiques, sexuels, géographiques ou une combinaison de facteurs. = English: The qualities that determine a subculture as distinct may be linguistic, aesthetic, religious, political, sexual, geographical, or a combination of factors.	108 plates of Chhappan Bhog (in Hinduism, 56 different edible items, like, sweets, fruits, nuts, dishes etc. which are offered to deity) were served to Baba Shyam.	108 Chhappan Bhog (in Hinduism, 56 different edible items, such as sweets, fruits, nuts, dishes etc. that are offered to the deity) plates were served to Baba Shyam.
French: Tous les navires furent coulés, à l’exception d’un croiseur britannique. Près de 200 Américains et Allemands perdirent la vie. = English: All the ships were sunk, except for one British cruiser. Nearly 200 American and German lives were lost.	Cancellation policies vary, but as of late March most coronavirus-based cancellation policies don't extend to July 2020, when the Olympics had been scheduled.	Cancellation policies vary, but by late March, most coronavirus-based cancellation policies do not extend into July 2020, when the Olympics were scheduled to take place.
French: Les naturalistes et les philosophes se sont concentrés sur les textes anciens, et en particulier sur la Bible en latin. = English: Naturalists and philosophers focused on classical texts and, in particular, on the Bible in Latin.	France is the seventh country in the European Union to suffer this virus; following Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Greece and Italy.	France is the seventh EU country to be hit by the virus, following Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Greece and Italy.
French: Il existe différentes méthodes de purification de l'eau, dont certaines sont plus efficaces contre des menaces spécifiques. = English: There are different ways of purifying water, some more effective against specific threats.	Most of the buildings on the edges of the complex have been rebuilt in order to give tourists a better idea of how they originally appeared.	Most of the buildings adjacent to the complex have been rebuilt to offer tourists a better view of their original appearance.
French: Ring a également réglé un procès avec une entreprise de sécurité concurrente, l'ADT Corporation. = English: Ring also settled a lawsuit with competing security company, the ADT Corporation.	Uka's weapon failed whilst pointed at a fifth man's head. Schneider has ongoing pain, blindness in one eye, a missing section of skull and a face rebuilt from titanium.	Uka's gun jammed as it was pointed at the head of a fifth man. Schneider suffers from a throbbing pain, can no longer see out of one eye, has lost part of his skull, and his face has been reconstructed from titanium.
French: Bientôt, des officiers équipés de matériel antiémeute pénétrèrent dans la cour et coincèrent les détenus avec des gaz lacrymogènes. = English: Soon, officers equipped with riot gear entered the yard and cornered the inmates with tear gas.	The Amazon is also the widest river on Earth, at times six miles wide.	The Amazon is also the widest river in the world, reaching up to 10 km wide.
French: Les forêts ne sont cependant pas composées uniquement de marais de mangroves : elles recèlent également certains des derniers vestiges des jungles majestueuses qui recouvraient autrefois la plaine du Gange. = English: The forests aren't just mangrove swamps though — they include some of the last remaining stands of the mighty jungles which once covered the Gangetic plain.	This will allow players to control actions and movements in video games by moving the device through the air.	This will allow players to control the actions and movements in video games by moving the device in the air.
French: Selon cette théorie, la majeure partie de la matière noire autour d’une galaxie se trouve dans une sorte de halo, et est constituée d’un grand nombre de petites particules. = English: This theory says that most dark matter around a galaxy is located around a galaxy in a kind of halo, and is made of lots of small particles.	Moreover, failure to do so has serious consequences: growth depression, malnutrition, and ultimately death.	In addition, a lack of reaction has serious consequences: growth disorders, malnutrition and ultimately, death.
French: L’effet que l’équipe recherchait serait causé par les forces de marée entre la matière noire de la galaxie et la matière noire de la Voie lactée. = English: The effect the team was looking for would be caused by tidal forces between the galaxy's dark matter and the Milky Way's dark matter.	In particular, it is claimed that one can detect whether a person is lying by interpreting micro-expressions correctly.	One of the claims is that one can detect if a person is lying by correctly interpreting micro-expressions.
French: Les plages de Tamaki Drive se trouvent sur le port de Waitemata, dans la banlieue chic de Mission Bay et de Saint Heliers dans le centre d’Auckland. = English: Tamaki Drive beaches are on the Waitemata Harbour, in the upmarket suburbs of Mission Bay and St Heliers in Central Auckland.	At one point a member of the mob waved the head of a royal guard killed at Versailles in front of the terrified Queen.	At one point, a member of the crowd brandished the head of a royal guard killed at Versailles in front of the terrified queen.
French: On signale qu'environ 9 400 habitations de la région sont privées d'eau, et qu'environ 100 sont privées d'électricité. = English: It is reported that some 9400 homes in the region are without water and approximately 100 without electricity.	Current senator and Argentine First Lady Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner announced her presidential candidacy yesterday evening in La Plata, a city 50 kilometers (31 miles) away from Buenos Aires.	Current Senator and First Lady of Argentina Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner announced her presidential candidacy, last night, in La Plata, a city located 50 kilometers (31 miles) from Buenos Aires.
French: La plupart des interprétations du déterminisme technologique s’accordent sur deux idées générales : le développement technologique lui-même se déroule selon un processus dépassant largement les influences culturelles et politiques, et la technologie a une incidence sur les sociétés conditionnées intrinsèquement plutôt que socialement. = English: Most interpretations of technological determinism share two general ideas: that the development of technology itself follows a path largely beyond cultural or political influence, and that technology in turn has "effects" on societies that are inherent, rather than socially conditioned.	Negotiators tried to rectify the situation, but the prisoners' demands are not clear.	The negotiators tried to rectify the situation, but the demands of the prisoners are unclear.
French: Nous n'en sommes pas sûrs, mais il se peut qu'il ait eu la langue fourchue. Son régime alimentaire comprenait des tortues, de gros poissons, d'autres mosasaures, et il se peut même qu'il ait été cannibale. = English: We don't know for sure, but it may have had a forked tongue. Its diet included turtles, large fish, other mosasaurs, and it may even have been a cannibal.	Yet, Spanish is also widely used in public transport and other facilities.	Yet, Spanish is also widely used in public transport and other facilities.
French: On sait depuis longtemps que différents types de dommages, lésions, tumeurs et traumatismes cérébraux affectent le comportement et provoquent des changements dans certaines fonctions mentales. = English: It has been known for a long time that different types of brain damage, traumas, lesions, and tumours affect behaviour and cause changes in some mental functions.	The Spaniards started the colonization period which lasted for three centuries.	The Spaniards inaugurated the period of colonization, which lasted three centuries.
French: Les requins existent, mais ils attaquent rarement les humains. La plupart d'entre eux ont peur des humains et s'en écarteraient. = English: Sharks do exist, however they rarely attack humans. Most sharks are scared of humans and would swim away.	Hydrogen ions are protons that had their electrons stripped off them (since Hydrogen atoms consist of one proton and one electron).	Hydrogen ions are protons that have been stripped of their electron (since hydrogen atoms are made of a proton and an electron).
French: Une formation dure normalement de 2 à 5 jours et comprend des jeux de rôle, beaucoup de premiers secours, et parfois un entraînement au maniement des armes. = English: A course will normally be from 2-5 days and will involve role play, a lot of first aid and sometimes weapons training.	All the ships were sunk, except for one British cruiser. Nearly 200 American and German lives were lost.	All the ships were sunk, except for one British cruiser. Nearly 200 Americans and Germans were killed.
French: Le tremblement de terre a frappé les Mariannes à 7 h 19 heure locale (21 h 19 GMT vendredi). = English: The eathquake struck Mariana at 07:19 a.m. local time (09:19 p.m. GMT Friday).	The High Middle Ages were preceded by the Early Middle Ages and followed by the Late Middle Ages, which by convention ends around 1500.	The Middle Ages were preceded by the Early Middle Ages and followed by the Late Middle Ages, which by convention ends around 1500.
French: La Cité du Vatican rédige sa législation et ses communications officielles en italien. = English: Vatican City uses Italian in its legislation and official communications.	The movie, featuring Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone, received nominations in all major categories.	The film, starring Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone, received nominations in all major categories.
French: La première de ses 78 recommandations est qu'une nouvelle initiative diplomatique devrait être prise avant la fin de l'année pour sécuriser les frontières de l'Irak contre les interventions hostiles et afin de rétablir les relations diplomatiques avec ses voisins. = English: First among its 78 recommendations is that a new diplomatic initiative should be taken before the end of this year to secure Iraq’s borders against hostile interventions and to re-establish diplomatic relations with its neighbors.	Professor Pamela Ferguson of the University of Dundee notes "journalists do seem to be walking a dangerous line if publishing photos etc of suspects."	Professor Pamela Ferguson, of the University of Dundee, notes that “journalists seem to be following a dangerous line if they publish photos, etc. of suspects”.
French: De nombreux formats courants (famille de formats APS, par exemple) sont égaux à ce rapport d’aspect ou s’en approchent de près. = English: Many common formats (APS family of formats, for example) are equal to or closely approximate this aspect ratio.	Tokyo will be the only Asian city to have hosted two summer Olympics, having hosted the games in 1964.	Tokyo will be the only Asian city to have hosted two Summer Olympic Games, after hosting the Games in 1964.
French: En ce qui concerne les inversions magnétiques, plus le nombre de Rossby est petit, moins l’étoile est active . = English: The smaller the Rossby number, the less active the star with respect to magnetic reversals.	Due to the underwater topology the return flow is concentrated at a few deeper sections, and a fast current to deep water may form there.	Due to the submarine topography, the return flow is concentrated on a few deeper sections, and a fast current towards the deep waters can form there.
French: Liggins a suivi les traces de son père et s'est lancé dans une carrière de médecin. = English: Liggins followed in his father’s footsteps and entered a career in medicine.	These relationships help in planning, design, and operations of roadway facilities.	These relationships help to plan, design, and operate road facilities.
French: Trois autres bombes ont explosé près des bâtiments du gouvernement en l'espace de deux heures. = English: Three more bombs exploded near government buildings in a period of two hours.	The area is also home to an extremely wide variety of animal and bird species.	The region also hosts a very large variety of animal and bird species.
French: Évitez de ne pas laisser le tissu surchauffer (ce qui peut causer son rétrécissement ou dans les cas extrêmes, le brûler). = English: Be careful not to allow fabric to become too hot (which can cause shrinkage, or in extreme cases, scorch).	Finland is a great boating destination. The "Land of a thousand lakes" has thousands of islands too, in the lakes and in the coastal archipelagos.	Finland is a prime destination for boating. The "Land of a Thousand Lakes" also has thousands of islands, in lakes and in coastal archipelagos.
French: La voie où l'accident a eu lieu a été temporairement barrée pour permettre aux services de secours d'extraire le conducteur de l'Audi TT rouge. = English: The road where the crash happened was temporarily closed while emergency services freed the driver from the red Audi TT.	The National Hurricane Center (NHC) says that at this point Jerry poses no threat to land.	The National Hurricane Center (NHC) says at this stage Jerry poses no threat to land.
French: Les alliages sont essentiellement un mélange de deux métaux ou plus. N'oubliez pas que le tableau périodique comporte de nombreux éléments. = English: Alloys are basically a mixture of two or more metals. Don't forget that there are many elements on the periodic table.	As a result, two fish species have become extinct, and two others have become endangered, including the humpback chub.	As a result, two fish species have disappeared and two others are in danger of extinction, including the hump-backed dace.
French: Les forêts ne sont cependant pas composées uniquement de marais de mangroves : elles recèlent également certains des derniers vestiges des jungles majestueuses qui recouvraient autrefois la plaine du Gange. = English: The forests aren't just mangrove swamps though — they include some of the last remaining stands of the mighty jungles which once covered the Gangetic plain.	Blogging is a tool that inspires collaboration, and encourages students to extend learning well beyond the traditional school day.	Blogs are a tool that stimulates collaboration and encourages students to extend their learning well beyond the traditional school day.
French: On dit donc que le rapport d'aspect de ce format (en divisant par douze pour obtenir le plus simple des rapports de nombres entiers) est de 3:2. = English: The aspect ratio of this format (dividing by twelve to obtain the simplest whole-number ratio) is therefore said to be 3:2.	"They are cooler than the surrounding surface in the day and warmer at night.	« They are cooler than the surrounding surface during the day and warmer at night ».
French: Même si un vaccin expérimental semble jusqu'ici capable de réduire le taux de mortalité d'Ebola, aucun remède n'a encore été suffisamment efficace pour traiter l'infection existante. = English: While one experimental vaccine appears able to reduce Ebola mortality, up until now, no drugs have been clearly demonstrated suitable for treating existing infection.	“Personal involvement” and “continuing relationships” were also identified as new motivation aspects by Eighmey and McCord (1998) when they investigated audience reactions to websites.	« Personal involvement » and « continuing relationships » have also been identified as new motivational aspects by Eighmey and McCord (1998) when they studied public reactions to websites.
French: Le soutien n'est pas une méthode d'apprentissage mais davantage un moyen d'aider les apprenants qui découvrent un nouvel enseignement tel que l'utilisation d'un nouveau programme ou le début d'un nouveau projet. = English: Scaffolding is not a method of learning but rather an aid that provides support to individuals whom are undergoing a new learning experience such as using a new computer program or beginning a new project.	This not only confirms that at least some dinosaurs had feathers, a theory already widespread, but provides details fossils generally cannot, such as color and three-dimensional arrangement.	This not only confirms that at least some dinosaurs had feathers, a theory already widely accepted, but provides details that fossils cannot usually provide, such as color and three-dimensional arrangement.
French: La tempête subtropicale Jerry, 10ème tempête de la saison des ouragans à porter un nom, est apparue ce jour dans l'océan Atlantique. = English: The tenth named storm of the Atlantic Hurricane season, Subtropical Storm Jerry, formed in the Atlantic Ocean today.	Now widely available throughout the archipelago, Javanese cuisine features an array of simply seasoned dishes, the predominant flavorings the Javanese favor being peanuts, chillies, sugar (especially Javanese coconut sugar) and various aromatic spices.	Now widely available throughout the archipelago, Javanese cuisine offers a range of simply seasoned dishes, the predominant flavors that Javanese favor being peanuts, chili peppers, sugar (particularly Javanese coconut sugar) and various aromatic spices.
French: En conséquence, les artistes fument des joints de cannabis sur scène, et le théâtre lui-même encourage le public à se joindre à eux. = English: As a result, the performers smoke cannabis joints on stage, and the theatre itself is encouraging the audience to join in.	Machu Picchu consist of three main structures, namely Intihuatana, the Temple of the Sun, and the Room of the Three Windows.	Machu Picchu is made up of three main structures, namely the Intihuatana, the temple of the sun and the room of the three windows.
French: Dans le cadre d'une adoption, les parents biologiques mettent fin à leurs droits parentaux afin qu'un autre couple puisse élever l'enfant. = English: In an adoption, the birth parents terminate their parental rights so that another couple may parent the child.	The East African Islands are in the Indian Ocean off the eastern coast of Africa.	East African islands lie in the Indian Ocean, off the east coast of Africa.
French: Les sports d'hiver de descente, notamment le ski et le snowboard, sont des sports populaires qui consistent à glisser pour dévaler une piste enneigée avec des skis ou un snowboard attachés aux pieds. = English: Downhill snowsports, which include skiing and snowboarding, are popular sports involving sliding down snow-covered terrain with skis or a snowboard attached to your feet.	Downhill snowsports, which include skiing and snowboarding, are popular sports involving sliding down snow-covered terrain with skis or a snowboard attached to your feet.	Downhill snowsports, which include skiing and snowboarding, are popular sports involving sliding down snow-covered terrain with skis or a snowboard attached to your feet.
French: 108 assiettes de Chhappan Bhog (dans l'hindouisme, 56 aliments comestibles différents, comme des sucreries, des fruits, des noix, des plats etc. qui sont offerts à la divinité) ont été servis à Baba Shyam. = English: 108 plates of Chhappan Bhog (in Hinduism, 56 different edible items, like, sweets, fruits, nuts, dishes etc. which are offered to deity) were served to Baba Shyam.	The two compounds react with one another to form crystals that may block kidney function, researchers at the university said.	The two compounds react with each other to form crystals that can block the kidney function, said researchers from the university.
French: Pratiquement tous les ordinateurs utilisés aujourd'hui sont basés sur la manipulation d'informations qui sont codées sous forme de nombres binaires. = English: Virtually all computers in use today are based on the manipulation of information which is coded in the form of binary numbers.	The qualities that determine a subculture as distinct may be linguistic, aesthetic, religious, political, sexual, geographical, or a combination of factors.	The criteria which determine a subculture as distinct can be linguistic, aesthetic, religious, political, sexual, geographical or a combination of factors.
French: Avec seulement dix-huit médailles disponibles par jour, un certain nombre de pays n'ont pas réussi à monter sur le podium des médaillés. = English: With only eighteen medals available a day, a number of countries have failed to make the medal podium.	They include the Netherlands, with Anna Jochemsen finishing ninth in the women's standing class in the Super-G yesterday, and Finland with Katja Saarinen finishing tenth in the same event.	They include the Netherlands, with Anna Jochemsen finishing ninth in the women's Super-G yesterday, and Finland, with Katja Saarinen finishing tenth in the same event.
French: Certains atomes ont un noyau instable, de sorte qu'ils ont tendance à se briser avec peu ou pas de pression. = English: Some atoms have unstable nuclei which means that they tend to break apart with little or no nudging.	Pre-modern observatories are usually obsolete today, and remain as museums, or sites of education.	Pre-modern observatories are generally obsolete today, and remain standing as museums or educational sites.
French: La Norvège, la Suède et la Nouvelle-Zélande sont dans la même situation, mais à part cela, c'est un cas unique (aux Pays-Bas, par exemple, le chiffre est de un à quarante). = English: This is matched by Norway, Sweden and New Zealand, but otherwise quite unique (e.g. in the Netherlands the figure is one to forty).	USA Gymnastics supports the United States Olympic Committee's letter and accepts the absolute need of the Olympic family to promote a safe environment for all of our athletes.	The United States Gymnastics Federation supports the letter of the United States Olympic Committee and accepts the absolute necessity of the Olympic family to promote a safe environment for all our athletes.
French: Les matchs ont commencé à 10 heures du matin avec un temps magnifique et, à part la bruine du milieu de la matinée qui s’est rapidement dissipée, c’était une journée parfaite pour le rugby à 7. = English: The games kicked off at 10:00am with great weather and apart from mid morning drizzle which quickly cleared up, it was a perfect day for 7's rugby.	Pre-operative transgender people should not expect to pass through the scanners with their privacy and dignity intact.	Transsexuals in the pre-operative phase should not expect to be scanned in private and with dignity.
French: Bien que trois personnes aient été présentes dans la maison quand la voiture l'a percutée, aucune n'a été blessée. = English: Although three people were inside the house when the car impacted it, none of them were hurt.	Inland waterways can be a good theme to base a holiday around.	The inland waterways can be a great theme for a holiday.
French: Hu a encouragé les pays en voie de développement « à éviter l'ancienne méthode qui consistait à polluer d'abord et à nettoyer ensuite ». = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	NHK also reported that the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear power plant in Niigata prefecture was operating normally.	The NHK also said that the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear power plant in Niigata Prefecture was operating normally.
French: Le rugissement du tigre ne ressemble pas au rugissement ample du lion, mais plutôt à une phrase dont les mots seraient des cris et des grondements. = English: The tiger's roar is not like the full-voiced roar of a lion, but more like a sentence of snarly, shouted words.	The earthquake was centered about 20 km (15 miles) north-northeast of Dillon, and about 65 km (40 miles) south of Butte.	The earthquake's epicenter was about 20 km (15 miles) north-northeast of Dillon, and about 65 km (40 miles) south of Butte.
French: Tommy Dreamer a déclaré : « Luna a été la première reine de l'extrême. Mon premier manager. Luna est décédée la nuit de deux lunes. Un moment unique, tout comme elle. Une femme forte. » = English: Tommy Dreamer said "Luna was the first Queen of Extreme. My first manager. Luna passed away on the night of two moons. Pretty unique just like her. Strong woman."	The term bug is used by entomologists in a formal sense for this group of insects.	The term "insect" is used by entomologists in a formal sense for this group of insects.
French: Les Égyptiens antiques du Nouvel Empire étaient émerveillés par les monuments de leurs prédécesseurs, qui avaient alors bien plus de mille ans. = English: New Kingdom ancient Egyptians marvelled at their predecessors monuments, which were then well over a thousand year old.	Ancient China had a unique way of showing different time periods; each stage of China or each family that was in power was a distinctive dynasty.	Ancient China had a unique way of showing the different eras; each step of China or each family that was in power was a distinct dynasty.
French: Bientôt, des officiers équipés de matériel antiémeute pénétrèrent dans la cour et coincèrent les détenus avec des gaz lacrymogènes. = English: Soon, officers equipped with riot gear entered the yard and cornered the inmates with tear gas.	Travellers may encounter animal pests that they are not familiar with in their home regions.	Travelers may encounter nuisance animals that they do not know from their home region.
French: USA Gymnastics et l'USOC ont le même objectif : rendre la gymnastique, ainsi que d'autres sports, aussi sûrs que possible pour que les athlètes puissent poursuivre leurs rêves dans un environnement sûr, positif et responsabilisant. = English: USA Gymnastics and the USOC have the same goal — making the sport of gymnastics, and others, as safe as possible for athletes to follow their dreams in a safe, positive and empowered environment.	It is one of the main attractions of South Africa and it is considered the flagship of South African National Parks (SANParks).	This is one of the most famous theme parks in South Africa and is considered the jewel in the crown of South African National Parks (SANParks).
French: Malgré le net avantage de Del Potro pendant le deuxième set, il a fallu passer par un tie-break une fois que le score a atteint 6-6. = English: Del Potro had the early advantage in the second set, but this too required a tie break after reaching 6-6.	"We will endeavour to cut carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by a notable margin by 2020 from the 2005 level," Hu said.	"We will strive to significantly reduce carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by 2020 compared to the 2005 level," said Mr. Hu.
French: Il a ensuite été transféré au centre hospitalier Addenbrooke's Hospital de Cambridge. = English: He was subsequently relocated to Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge.	Mosasaurus was the apex predator of its time, so it feared nothing, except other mosasaurs.	The mosasaur was the superpredator of the time, it feared nothing, except other mosasaurs.
French: L'idée de skier est très ancienne : des peintures rupestres montrant des skieurs datent pour certaines de 5 000 ans av. J.-C. ! = English: The idea of skiing is very old — cave paintings depicting skiers date back as far as 5000 BC!	Chambers, an agnostic, argues that his lawsuit is "frivolous" and "anybody can sue anybody."	Chambers, an angel, claims that his trial is "frivolous" and that "anyone can sue anyone".
French: Ses recherches ont démontré que si une hormone était administrée, elle accélérerait la maturation pulmonaire du bébé. = English: His research showed that if a hormone was administered it would speed up the baby's foetal lung maturation.	But regardless of his discovery, Eskimo tribes were already living there at the time.	But regardless of his discovery, Eskimo tribes had already been living there at the time.
French: Les scientifiques ont pu conclure que la matière noire affecte les autres matières noires de la même manière que la matière normale. = English: The scientists were able to conclude that the dark matter affect other dark matter in the same way regular matter does.	She came to this conclusion due to the multitude of positive comments and encouragement sent to her by both female and male individuals urging that contraception medication be considered a medical necessity.	She arrived at this conclusion thanks to the multiple positive comments and encouragements she received from both women and men on the importance of considering contraception as a necessity.
French: En vous rendant au nord, ne manquez pas de visiter le superbe sanctuaire de Notre-Dame de Fatima (temple), un lieu mondialement connu pour les apparitions de Marie. = English: Also to the north visit the great Sanctuary of Our Lady of Fatima (Shrine), a place of worldwide famous Marian apparitions.	It uses satellite-based technology as opposed to older ground-radar-based technology to allow air traffic controllers to pinpoint aircraft with greater precision and give pilots more accurate information.	It is based on satellite technologies, and not on ground-based radar systems used before, which allows air traffic controllers to locate aircraft with greater precision and provide pilots with more detailed information.
French: Pour des informations sur les tournois et les endroits où acheter des billets pour les matchs de polo, consultez l’Asociacion Argentina de Polo. = English: For news on tournaments and where to buy tickets for polo matches, check Asociacion Argentina de Polo.	Two popular content theories are Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs Theory and Hertzberg's Two Factor Theory.	Two popular content theories are Maslow’s hierarchy of needs theory and Herzberg’s two-factor theory.
French: En règle générale, il faut payer des frais d'inscription pour suivre ces programmes éducatifs. = English: Typically there will be a tuition fee to enroll in these educational programs.	Minor cultures often vanish without leaving relevant historic evidence and fail to be recognized as proper civilizations.	Minority cultures often disappear without leaving any relevant historical traces and are not recognized as real civilizations.
French: Située au sommet d'une des montagnes au nord de La Mecque, la grotte est totalement isolée du reste du monde. = English: Resting on the top of one of the mountains north of Mecca, the cave is completely isolated from the rest of the world.	Around 3 minutes into the launch, an on-board camera showed numerous pieces of insulation foam break away from the fuel tank.	About three minutes after launch, an onboard camera showed many pieces of insulating foam detaching from the fuel tank.
French: En 1884, Tesla s'est installé aux États-Unis d'Amérique pour accepter un emploi à la Edison Company à New York. = English: In 1884, Tesla moved to the United States of America to accept a job with the Edison Company in New York City.	Through the night between 150 and 200 copies were made, now known as "Dunlap broadsides".	During the night, between 150 and 200 copies were made, which are known today as the "Dunlap Broadsides".
French: L’espace Schengen, cependant, fonctionne un peu comme un seul pays à cet égard. = English: The Schengen zone, however, works somewhat like one country in this respect.	Rare fauna such as the European brown bear, wolf, eagle, owl, lynx, wild cat and capercaillie can be found there, along with many more common species	Rare animals such as the brown bear of Europe, the wolf, the eagle, the owl, the lynx, the wild cat and the great tit can be seen there, as well as many other common species.
French: Les croisillons ont été introduits assez tôt pour maintenir les pistes en place. Cependant, on s'est peu à peu rendu compte que les pistes seraient plus efficaces si elles étaient munies d'une bande de fer sur le dessus. = English: Crossties were introduced fairly early to hold the tracks in place. Gradually, however, it was realised that tracks would be more efficient if they had a stip of iron on the top.	Most insects have the advantage of being able to fold their wings back along the body.	Most insects have the advantage of being able to fold their wings along the body.
French: La chanteuse Sanju Sharma a commencé la soirée, suivie par Jai Shankar Choudhary. Lakkha Singh a également présenté le bhajan de Chhappan Bhog. Le chanteur Raju Khandelwal l’accompagnait. = English: Singer Sanju Sharma started the evening, followed by Jai Shankar Choudhary. esented the chhappan bhog bhajan as well. Singer, Raju Khandelwal was accompanying him.	The wheel has changed the world in incredible ways. The biggest thing that the wheel has done for us is given us much easier and faster transportation.	The wheel has changed the world in many ways. The greatest advantage it has brought us is to have made transportation much simpler and faster.
French: De plus, sachez que les odeurs attirent les ours et autres animaux sauvages, alors évitez de transporter ou de cuisiner des aliments odorants et gardez le camp propre. = English: In addition, be aware that odors attract bears and other wildlife, so avoid carrying or cooking odorous foods and keep a clean camp.	While one experimental vaccine appears able to reduce Ebola mortality, up until now, no drugs have been clearly demonstrated suitable for treating existing infection.	Even if an experimental vaccine seems to be able to reduce the mortality rate of Ebola, no cure has yet been sufficiently effective to treat existing infection.
French: Les voies navigables intérieures peuvent être un excellent thème pour des vacances. = English: Inland waterways can be a good theme to base a holiday around.	For example, “learning” and “socialization” are suggested as important motivations for Internet use (James et al., 1995).	For example, "learning" and "socialization" are considered to be major factors in Internet use (James et al., 1995).
French: Les casinos font généralement de nombreux efforts pour maximiser le temps et l’argent dépensés par les clients. On y trouve rarement des fenêtres et des horloges, et les sorties peuvent être difficiles à repérer. = English: Casinos typically make many efforts to maximize time and money spent by guests. Windows and clocks are usually absent, and exits can be hard to find.	If you want some small though rich pastries, try what depending on region are called Berliner, Pfannkuchen or Krapfen.	If you want small but filling pastries, try Berliner, also called Berliner, Pfannkuchen or Krapfen depending on the region.
French: Si vous avez réservé vos vols et votre hébergement en 2020 avant l'annonce du report, vous risquez d'être confronté à une situation délicate. = English: If you booked your flights and accommodation for 2020 before the postponement was announced, you may have a tricky situation.	Courier companies are well paid for delivering things quickly. Frequently, time is very important with business documents, merchandise or spare parts for an urgent repair.	Transport companies are well paid to deliver quickly. Often, in the context of an urgent repair, the question of time is crucial for documents, goods or spare parts related to it.
French: Un empoisonnement interne peut ne pas être visible immédiatement. Les symptômes, tels que les vomissements, sont suffisamment généraux pour qu'un diagnostic immédiat ne puisse pas être posé. = English: Internal poisoning may not be immediately apparent. Symptoms, such as vomiting are sufficiently general that an immediate diagnosis cannot be made.	This is the place the British colonisers took as their own and so if you are looking for evidence of the territory's colonial past, this is a good place to start.	This is the place that the British colonists have invested. So it seems to me a good starting point, if you are looking for evidence of the colonial past of this region.
French: Le village de Haldarsvík offre des vues sur l’île voisine d’Eysturoy et abrite une église octogonale inhabituelle. = English: The village of Haldarsvík offer views of the nearby island Eysturoy and has an unusual octagonal church.	In developed countries you seldom hear similar levels of complaints about water quality or bridges falling down.	In developed countries, it is rare to hear so many complaints about the quality of water or the collapse of bridges.
French: On trouve aussi des alliages qui comprennent une petite quantité d’éléments non métalliques, comme le carbone. = English: You can also have alloys that include small amounts of non-metallic elements like carbon.	The aspect ratio of this format (dividing by twelve to obtain the simplest whole-number ratio) is therefore said to be 3:2.	We say that the aspect ratio of this format (by dividing by twelve to get the simplest of integer ratios) is 3:2.
French: Leur défense bien disciplinée, leur adresse dans le contrôle du ballon et leur formidable travail d’équipe leur ont permis de se distinguer et il est évident que c’était l’équipe à battre. = English: Their disciplined defence, ball handling skills and excellent team work made them stand out and it was clear that this was the team to beat.	Air accidents are common in Iran, which has an aging fleet that is poorly maintained both for civil and military operations.	Air accidents are frequent in Iran, which has a poorly maintained and old fleet of both civilian and military aircraft.
French: Le président américain George W. Bush est arrivé à Singapour le matin du 16 novembre, débutant une tournée d’une semaine en Asie. = English: U.S. President George W. Bush arrived in Singapore the morning of November 16, beginning a week-long tour of Asia.	The Paralympics will take place from 24 August to 5 September 2021. Some events will be held in other locations throughout Japan.	The Paralympics will be held from August 24 to September 5, 2021. Some events will be held in other locations across Japan.
French: Les photographes ont ensuite pris la place d'une dame âgée qui avait besoin d'aller aux toilettes. Mendoza a été abattue. = English: The photographers later took the place of an aged lady as she needed the lavatory. Mendoza was gunned down.	Most of the monasteries do provide wraps for women who come unprepared, but if you bring your own, especially one with bright colors, you'll get a smile from the monk or nun at the entrance.	Most monasteries provide stole for women who arrive without anything, but if you bring your own, and it is brightly coloured, you will get a smile from the monk or nun at the entrance.
French: La présence d'une réelle « équipe invisible » (Larson et LaFasto, 1989, p109) est également un élément unique d'une équipe virtuelle. = English: The presence of a true “invisible team” (Larson and LaFasto, 1989, p109) is also a unique component of a virtual team.	In the north the region is bounded by the Sahel, and in the south and west by the Atlantic Ocean.	To the north, the region is bounded by the Sahel, and to the south and west by the Atlantic Ocean.
French: Les troupes de coalition et Afghanes se sont déplacées dans la zone pour sécuriser le site et un avion d’une autre coalition a été envoyé pour seconder. = English: Coalition and Afghan troops moved into the area to secure the site and other coalition aircraft have been sent to assist.	Oliver Sacks, in his paper The President's Speech, indicated how people who are unable to understand speech because of brain damage are nevertheless able to assess sincerity accurately.	Oliver Sacks, in his article The President’s Speech, indicated how people unable to understand the speech due to brain damage are nevertheless able to accurately assess sincerity.
French: Dans les pays développés, il est rare d’entendre autant de plaintes concernant la qualité de l’eau ou l’effondrement de ponts. = English: In developed countries you seldom hear similar levels of complaints about water quality or bridges falling down.	Most districts are served by small Japanese Coaster Buses, which are comfortable and sturdy.	Most districts are served by small Japanese cargo ships, which are comfortable and robust.
French: Après avoir vu les horreurs et les atrocités de la guerre pendant la Première Guerre mondiale, les nations ont souhaité éviter qu’une telle situation ne se reproduise à l’avenir. = English: After seeing the horrors and atrocities of war during World War I, nations desired to avoid such a situation again in the future.	In many cases, enrolling on a gap-year course abroad can actually improve your chances of moving into higher education back in your home country.	Often, the fact of having followed a year abroad course can actually give you better chances of doing higher education in your country.
French: Le plus grand tournoi de l'année se déroule en décembre sur les terrains de polo de Las Cañitas. = English: The largest tournament of the year takes place in December at the polo fields in Las Cañitas.	They often have more autonomy than conventional team members as their teams may meet according to varying time zones which may not be understood by their local management.	They often have more autonomy than traditional team members because their teams can meet on different time zones, which may not be understood by their local management.
French: Le ministère japonais de l'économie, du commerce et de l'industrie (METI) a déclaré qu'il avait eu connaissance de 27 accidents liés à ces appareils. = English: Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) said that it had been aware of 27 accidents related to the devices.	Think of the skiing route as of a similar hiking route.	Think of the ski route as a similar hiking route.
French: Les critiques des libéraux sur l'effort de reconstruction se sont concentrées sur l'attribution de contrats de reconstruction à des personnes perçues comme des initiés de Washington. = English: Liberal criticism of the reconstruction effort has focused on the awarding of reconstruction contracts to perceived Washington insiders.	Romanticism had a large element of cultural determinism, drawn from writers such as Goethe, Fichte, and Schlegel.	Romanticism presented an important element of cultural determinism, drawn from writers such as Goethe, Fichte and Schlegel.
French: Un couple peut très bien estimer qu'il n'est pas dans leur intérêt, ni dans celui de l'enfant, de s'occuper de l'éducation d'un bébé. = English: A couple may decide it is not in their best interest, or in the interest of their child, to raise a baby.	Typically there will be a tuition fee to enroll in these educational programs.	In general, you have to pay tuition fees to take these educational programs.
French: D'après le dernier bulletin, les relevés du niveau de la mer indiquent qu'un tsunami s'est produit. Une activité tsunami précise a été enregistrée près de Pago Pago et de Niue. = English: According to the latest bulletin, sea level readings indicated a tsunami was generated. There was some definite tsunami activity recorded near Pago Pago and Niue.	Skiing is a major travelling activity with many enthusiasts, occasionally known as "ski bums," planning entire vacations around skiing at a particular location.	Skiing is a major travel activity that has many devotees, sometimes called "ski bums", who organize their entire vacation around skiing in specific locations.
French: Les scientifiques affirment que l'explosion causée par la collision a été massive. = English: Scientists say the explosion caused by the collision was massive.	In a carriage, they traveled back to Paris surrounded by a mob of people screaming and shouting threats against the King and Queen.	They rode in a carriage back to Paris surrounded by a crowd of people who were shouting and screaming threats against the king and queen.
French: Étant donné que les plumes de dinosaure n'ont pas une tige entièrement développée, que l'on appelle rachis, mais montrent cependant d'autres caractéristiques propres aux plumes – barbes et barbules – les chercheurs en ont déduit que le rachis était probablement un développement évolutif ultérieur à ces autres caractéristiques. = English: Because the dinosaur feathers do not have a well-developed shaft, called a rachis, but do have other features of feathers — barbs and barbules — the researchers inferred the rachis was likely a later evolutionary development that these other features.	So, it is likely that the notation was added simply as a label.	It is therefore likely that the notation was added simply as a label.
French: La France est le septième pays de l’UE à subir l'impact du virus, faisant suite à l’Autriche, l’Allemagne, la Slovénie, la Bulgarie, la Grèce et l’Italie. = English: France is the seventh country in the European Union to suffer this virus; following Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Greece and Italy.	In the PALM trial, ZMapp served as a control, meaning scientists used it as a baseline and compared the three other treatments to it.	In the PALM trial, ZMapp was used as a control, which means that scientists used it as a baseline and compared it to the other three treatments.
French: Le bus 403 de Scotturb se rend régulièrement à Sintra, avec un arrêt à Cabo da Roca. = English: Scotturb Bus 403 travels regularly to Sintra, stopping at Cabo da Roca.	Next, some saddles, particularly English saddles, have safety bars that allow a stirrup leather to fall off the saddle if pulled backwards by a falling rider.	Then, some saddles, especially English ones, have safety bars that allow a stirrup to fall off the saddle if it is pulled back by a rider who falls.
French: La Révolution française a également inspiré de nombreuses autres classes ouvrières réprimées d’autres pays à entamer leur propre révolution. = English: The French Revolution also inspired many other repressed working class people of other country's to began their own revolutions.	A curry is a dish based on herbs and spices, together with either meat or vegetables.	A curry is a dish made of herbs and spices, accompanied by meat or vegetables.
French: Après que les agents ont vérifié son identité, l’électeur jette l’enveloppe dans l’urne et signe sa carte d’électeur. = English: After officials verify the voter's identity, the voter drops the envelope into the ballot box and signs the voting roll.	In the context of Romanticism, the geography molded individuals, and over time customs and culture related to that geography arose, and these, being in harmony with the place of the society, were better than arbitrarily imposed laws.	According to the theories of Romanticism, geography would have shaped individuals and, over time, customs and a culture related to this geography would have emerged. These, in harmony with the places occupied by society, would be preferable to arbitrary laws imposed.
French: Les taxis collectifs sont un moyen rapide et confortable de se rendre dans des endroits proches, tels que Paro (150 Nu) et Punakha (200 Nu). = English: Shared taxis are a quick and comfortable means to travel to nearby places, such as Paro (Nu 150) and Punakha (Nu 200).	Such things have become separate disciplines, which focus on providing solutions to real life problems.	These practices have led to distinct disciplines, focused on providing solutions to the problems of everyday life.
French: Un couple peut très bien estimer qu'il n'est pas dans leur intérêt, ni dans celui de l'enfant, de s'occuper de l'éducation d'un bébé. = English: A couple may decide it is not in their best interest, or in the interest of their child, to raise a baby.	The tiger's roar is not like the full-voiced roar of a lion, but more like a sentence of snarly, shouted words.	The roar of the tiger does not resemble the broad roar of the lion, but rather a sentence whose words are cries and growls.
French: Le skieur polonais malvoyant Maciej Krezel et sa guide Anna Ogarzynska ont terminé à la treizième place du Super-G. Le sud coréen Jong Seork Park a terminé à la vingt-quatrième place du Super-G assis masculin. = English: Poland's men's visually impaired skier Maciej Krezel and guide Anna Ogarzynska finished thirteenth in the Super-G. South Korea's Jong Seork Park finished twenty-fourth in the men's sitting Super-G.	Regular announcements in the Metro are made only in Catalan, but unplanned disruptions are announced by an automated system in a wide variety of languages including Spanish, English, French, Arabic and Japanese.	Regular announcements in the metro are only made in Catalan, but unforeseen disruptions are announced by an automated system in many languages, including Spanish, English, French, Arabic and Japanese.
French: Les étriers sont des appuis pour les pieds du cavalier, qui pendent de chaque côté de la selle. = English: Stirrups are supports for the rider's feet that hang down on either side of the saddle.	The obvious way of flying in first or business class is to fork out a thick wad of money for the privilege (or, better yet, get your company to do it for you).	The most obvious way to travel in first class or business class is to pay a large sum of money for this privilege (or, better yet, ask your company to do it for you).
French: Un sondage effectué auprès de 1 400 personnes avant les élections fédérales de 2010 a révélé que le nombre d'opposants à la transformation de l'Australie en république avait augmenté de 8 % depuis 2008. = English: Out of 1,400 people polled prior to the 2010 federal election, those who oppose Australia becoming a republic grew by 8 per cent since 2008.	No tsunami warning has been issued, and according to the Jakarta geophysics agency, no tsunami warning will be issued because the quake did not meet the magnitude 6.5 requirement.	No tsunami warning was issued and the Indonesian geophysics agency said no tsunami warning would be issued because the earthquake did not reach the required magnitude of 6.5.
French: Duvall, qui est marié et a deux enfants adultes, n’a pas fait bonne impression à Miller, à qui l’histoire a été relatée. = English: Duvall, who is married with two adult children, did not leave a big impression on Miller, to whom the story was related.	Despite there being no tsunami threat, residents started to panic and began to leave their businesses and homes.	Despite the lack of risk of a tsunami, residents panicked and left their homes and businesses.
French: Son travail est d'une telle qualité et d'un tel niveau de détail qu'il est l'un des rares philatélistes bien connus du « grand public ». Certains collectionneurs consacrent leur attention uniquement à ses œuvres. = English: His work is of such recognized quality and detail that he is one of the very few "household names" among philatelists. Some specialize in collecting his work alone.	A former Filipino policeman has kept Hong Kong tourists hostage by hijacking their bus in Manila, the capital of the Philippines.	A former Philippine policeman hijacked a Hong Kong tourist bus in Manila, the Philippines' capital.
French: Le chef suprême Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III fut assassiné lors un rassemblement pacifique qui se tenait en ville, durant la luttee de l’indépendance organisée par le mouvement Mau. = English: During the struggle for independence organised by the Mau movement, a peaceful gathering in the town resulted in the killing of the paramount chief Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III.	This is especially popular with school leavers, allowing them to take a year out before university, without compromising their education.	This formula is particularly appreciated by young people who leave school, because it allows them to take a year off before university, without compromising their studies.
French: Il est presque impossible d’échanger de l’argent des Malouines en dehors des îles, alors changez-le avant de quitter les îles. = English: It is nearly impossible to exchange Falklands currency outside of the islands, so exchange money prior to leaving the islands.	U.S. President George W. Bush welcomed the announcement.	US President George W. Bush welcomed this announcement with satisfaction.
French: Les montagnes de la péninsule se fondent dans le plateau, puis réapparaissent pour former la chaîne montagneuse d'Ellsworth, longue de 360 km et traversée par le glacier du Minnesota. = English: The mountains of the Peninsula here merge into the plateau, then re-emerge to form the 360 km chain of the Ellsworth Mountains, bisected by the Minnesota Glacier.	His work is of such recognized quality and detail that he is one of the very few "household names" among philatelists. Some specialize in collecting his work alone.	His work is of such quality and such a level of detail that he is one of the few philatelists well known to the general public. Some collectors devote their attention solely to his works.
French: Cette stratégie s'est avérée efficace, coupant les approvisionnements militaires et civils vitaux, bien que ce blocus ait violé le droit international généralement accepté et codifié par plusieurs accords internationaux des deux derniers siècles. = English: The strategy proved effective, cutting off vital military and civilian supplies, although this blockade violated generally accepted international law codified by several international agreements of the past two centuries.	Technological determinism is a term that encompasses a wide range of ideas in practice, from technology-push or the technological imperative to a strict sense that human destiny is driven by an underlying logic associated with scientific laws and their manifestation in technology.	Technological determinism is a term that encompasses a wide range of ideas in practice, ranging from technological push or technological imperative to a strict sense in which the fate of humanity is dictated by a logic underlying the laws of science and their manifestation in technologies.
French: Néanmoins, suivez les conseils des autorités, obéissez à tous les panneaux et prêtez une attention particulière aux avertissements de sécurité. = English: Still, take advice from authorities, obey all signs, and pay close attention to safety warnings.	According to the latest bulletin, sea level readings indicated a tsunami was generated. There was some definite tsunami activity recorded near Pago Pago and Niue.	According to the latest bulletin, sea level readings indicate that a tsunami has occurred. A specific tsunami activity has been recorded near Pago Pago and Niue.
French: Le Machu Picchu est composé de trois structures principales, à savoir l'Intihuatana, le temple du soleil et la salle des trois fenêtres. = English: Machu Picchu consist of three main structures, namely Intihuatana, the Temple of the Sun, and the Room of the Three Windows.	Our foster care system is supposed to provide safe homes, loving caregivers, stable education, and reliable health care.	Our foster care system is supposed to provide safe homes, loving caregivers, stable education and reliable health care.
French: Le temps violent est le terme générique pour tout phénomène météorologique dangereux susceptible de causer des dommages, de graves bouleversements sociaux ou la perte de vies humaines. = English: Severe weather is the generic term for any dangerous weather phenomenon with the potential to cause damage, serious social disruption, or loss of human life.	Examples include control, planning and scheduling, the ability to answer customer diagnoses and questions, as well as handwriting recognition, voice and face.	Examples include control, planning and programming, the ability to respond to diagnostics and customer questions, and recognition of handwriting, voice and face.
French: Les agences de voyage proposent généralement des forfaits comprenant le petit déjeuner, le service de transport depuis/vers l'aéroport ou même des forfaits combinant le vol et l'hébergement. = English: Travel agents usually offer packages that include breakfast, transportation arrangements to/from the airport or even combined flight and hotel packages.	The governor's office said nineteen of the injured were police officers.	The governor's office said that nineteen of the injured were police officers.
French: Le parti au pouvoir, l'Organisation du peuple du Sud-Ouest africain (SWAPO), a lui aussi réussi à conserver la majorité aux élections législatives. = English: The ruling party, South West Africa People's Organisation (SWAPO), also retained a majority in the parliamentary elections.	Scientists think that ocelots follow and find animals to eat (prey) by smell, sniffing for where they've been on the ground.	According to scientists, ocelots hunt and find food (prey) by smell, by sniffing their trail on the ground.
French: Les accusés s'appellent Baba Kanjar, Bhutha Kanjar, Rampro Kanjar, Gaza Kanjar et Vishnu Kanjar. = English: The accused are named as Baba Kanjar, Bhutha Kanjar, Rampro Kanjar, Gaza Kanjar and Vishnu Kanjar.	Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) said that it had been aware of 27 accidents related to the devices.	The Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) has stated that it has been made aware of 27 accidents related to these devices.
French: Nous percevons le système de placement familial comme une zone de sécurité pour ces enfants. = English: We perceive the Foster Care System to be a safety zone for these children.	Aerosmith have cancelled their remaining concerts on their tour.	Aerosmith has cancelled the last concerts of its tour.
French: Les Espagnols ont inauguré la période de la colonisation, laquelle a duré trois siècles. = English: The Spaniards started the colonization period which lasted for three centuries.	In this dynamic transport shuttle everyone is somehow connected with, and supporting, a transport system based on private cars.	In this dynamic transport shuttle, each is somehow connected to a transport system based on private cars and supports it.
French: Le déterminisme technologique est un terme qui englobe un large éventail d'idées dans la pratique, allant de la poussée technologique ou de l'impératif technologique à un sens strict selon lequel le destin de l'humanité est dicté par une logique sous-jacente liée aux lois scientifiques et à leur manifestation dans les technologies. = English: Technological determinism is a term that encompasses a wide range of ideas in practice, from technology-push or the technological imperative to a strict sense that human destiny is driven by an underlying logic associated with scientific laws and their manifestation in technology.	You can see the pyramids in the dark and you can see them in silence before the show begins.	You can see the pyramids in the dark and you can see them in silence before the show starts.
French: Le bus 403 de Scotturb se rend régulièrement à Sintra, avec un arrêt à Cabo da Roca. = English: Scotturb Bus 403 travels regularly to Sintra, stopping at Cabo da Roca.	The Arabs also brought Islam to the lands, and it took in a big way in the Comoros and Mayotte.	The Arabs also brought the practice of Islam to the lands and this religion spread widely to the Comoros and Mayotte.
French: Le Congrès n’avait pas le pouvoir d’imposer des taxes et, comme il n’y avait pas de pouvoir exécutif ou judiciaire national, il s’en remettait aux autorités de l’État, souvent peu coopératives, pour faire appliquer tous ses actes. = English: Congress lacked any power to impose taxes, and, because there was no national executive or judiciary, it relied on state authorities, who were often uncooperative, to enforce all its acts.	The Articles required unanimous consent from all the states before they could be amended and states took the central government so lightly that their representatives were often absent.	Articles required unanimous consent of all the states before they could be amended, and the states took the central government so lightly that their representatives were often absent.
French: Comme il n'y avait pas de grandes forêts en terre de Canaan, le bois était extrêmement cher. = English: There were no large forests in the land of Canaan, so wood was extremely expensive.	The word civilization comes from the Latin civilis, meaning civil, related to the Latin civis, meaning citizen, and civitas, meaning city or city-state, and that also somehow defines the size of the society.	The term "civilization" is derived from the Latin word "civilis", which means civil and is related to the Latin words "civis", which means citizen, and "civitas", which means large city or city-state and also, in a way, indicates the size of the society to which it relates.
French: Pendant plus d'un millier d'années, la religion chrétienne a lié les États européens entre eux malgré les différences de langue et de coutumes. = English: For over a thousand years the Christian religion had bound European states together despite differences in language and customs. I	It is helpful to also wear a ring (just not one that looks too expensive.	It is also advisable to wear an engagement ring (which should not look too precious. I
French: Dans les endroits reculés, sans réseau de téléphonie cellulaire, vous n'aurez peut-être pas d'autre choix que de recourir à la téléphonie par satellite. = English: In remote locations, without cell phone coverage, a satellite phone may be your only option.	Suspected cases of H5N1 in Croatia and Denmark remain unconfirmed.	The suspected H5N1 cases in Croatia and Denmark are not yet confirmed.
French: De nos jours, de nombreux Sâmes pratiquent des métiers modernes. Le tourisme constitue une importante source de revenus en Laponie, la région sâme. = English: Today many Sámi work in modern trades. Tourism is an important income in Sápmi, the Sámi area.	The Director of Public Prosecutions, Kier Starmer QC, gave a statement this morning announcing the prosecution of both Huhne and Pryce.	The Director of Public Prosecutions, QC Kier Starmer, made a statement this morning announcing the prosecution of Huhne and Pryce.
French: Le fleuve Amazone est le deuxième plus long et le plus grand fleuve sur Terre. Il charrie plus de huit fois le volume d'eau du deuxième plus gros fleuve. = English: The Amazon River is the second longest and the biggest river on Earth. It carries more than 8 times as much water as the second biggest river.	Economic links have been re-established between these two parts of Moldova despite the failure in political negotiations.	Economic links have been restored between these two parts of Moldova despite the failure of political negotiations.
French: Le chef suprême Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III fut assassiné lors un rassemblement pacifique qui se tenait en ville, durant la luttee de l’indépendance organisée par le mouvement Mau. = English: During the struggle for independence organised by the Mau movement, a peaceful gathering in the town resulted in the killing of the paramount chief Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III.	The job of navies has traditionally been to ensure that your country maintains the ability to move your people and goods, while at the same time, interfering with your enemy's ability to move his people and goods.	The work of the marines has traditionally been to ensure that your country retains the ability to move your people and your goods, while interfering with the ability of your enemy to move its people and its goods.
French: Le sultan marocain a reconstruit la ville sous le nom de Daru l-Badya, et elle a été rebaptisée Casablanca par les commerçants espagnols qui y ont établi des comptoirs de négoce. = English: The Moroccan sultan rebuilt the city as Daru l-Badya and it was given the name Casablanca by Spanish traders who established trading bases there.	After officials verify the voter's identity, the voter drops the envelope into the ballot box and signs the voting roll.	After the agents have checked his identity, the voter throws the envelope into the ballot box and signs his voter card.
French: Les Parisiens ont la réputation d'être égocentriques, grossiers et arrogants. = English: Parisians have a reputation for being egocentric, rude and arrogant.	With two years of the end of the war, the former allies were now enemies and the Cold War began.	Two years after the end of the war, the former allies became enemies and the cold war began.
French: Les limitations de vitesse affichées sont sensiblement plus basses que dans les tronçons précédents et suivants – généralement de 35 à 40 mph (56-64 km/h) – et leur respect strict est encore plus important qu'auparavant. = English: Posted speed limits are noticeably lower than in previous and subsequent sections — commonly 35-40 mph (56-64 km/h) — and strict obedience to them is even more important than otherwise.	Built by the Egyptians in the third century BCE, the Great Pyramid is one of many large pyramid structures built to honor dead Pharaoh.	Built by the Egyptians during the third millennium B.C., the Great Pyramid is one of many giant structures erected in honor of deceased pharaohs.
French: Les horloges biologiques sont des oscillateurs autosuffisants qui continueront un cycle de fonctionnement pendant une certaine période, même en l'absence de stimulation extérieure. = English: Biological clocks are self sustaining oscillators which will continue a period of free-running cycling even in the absence of external cues.	The scientists were able to conclude that the dark matter affect other dark matter in the same way regular matter does.	Scientists have concluded that dark matter affects other dark matter in the same way that normal matter does.
French: La seule manière de le faire parvenir plus rapidement était de l'envoyer en tant que bagage enregistré. Les réglementations aériennes ne les autoriseront pas à envoyer un bagage sans passager, et c'est là que vous intervenez. = English: The only way to get it through faster was to send it as checked luggage. Airline regulations will not allow them to send luggage without a passenger, which is where you come in.	Therefore, reading this grammar primer would help you learn much about Persian grammar and understand phrases better.	Therefore, reading this introduction to grammar would help you learn a lot about Persian grammar and better understand the sentences.
French: Sur les îles avoisinantes, les cartes de crédit ne seront probablement pas acceptées, même s’il se peut que les devises britannique et américaine le soient. Parlez-en à l’avance avec les propriétaires afin de vous mettre d’accord sur une méthode de paiement. = English: On the outlying islands credit cards will probably not be accepted, although British and United States currency may be taken; check with the owners in advance to determine what is an acceptable payment method.	The Moroccan sultan rebuilt the city as Daru l-Badya and it was given the name Casablanca by Spanish traders who established trading bases there.	The Moroccan sultan rebuilt the city under the name Daru l-Badya, and it was renamed Casablanca by the Spanish merchants who established trading posts there.
French: La science montre désormais que cette économie massivement basée sur le carbone a délogé la biosphère de son état de stabilité qui a soutenu l'évolution humaine pendant deux millions d'années. = English: Science now indicates that this massive carbon economy has dislodged the biosphere from one of its stable states that has supported human evolution for the past two million years.	Searches at security checkpoints have also become far more intrusive in the post-September 11, 2001 era.	Security checkpoints have also become much more intrusive in the post-9/11 era.
French: D'autre part, la présence de glace et de neige est normale dans de nombreux pays, et la circulation est pratiquement ininterrompue toute l'année. = English: On the other hand, icy and snowy conditions are normal in many countries, and traffic goes on mostly uninterrupted all year round.	Under them are more medium sized cats that eat medium sized prey ranging from rabbits to antelopes and deer.	Below are medium-sized cats that eat medium-sized prey, ranging from rabbits to antelopes and other deer.
French: Ceci autorisera la rétro-compatibilité avec les itérations 802.11a, b et g, sous réserve que la station possède deux radios. = English: This will allow it to be backwards compatible with 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g, provided that the base station has dual radios.	The hot chocolate is up to Belgian standards. Fruit juices are pricey but excellent.	Hot chocolate is in accordance with Belgian standards. Fruit juices are expensive but excellent.
French: Par exemple, visiter des châteaux dans la vallée de la Loire, la vallée du Rhin ou faire une croisière vers des sites intéressants sur le Danube ou faire du bateau le long du canal Erie. = English: For example visiting castles in the Loire Valley, the Rhine valley or taking a cruise to interesting cites on the Danube or boating along the Erie Canal.	Although the coastal archipelagos and the biggest lakes are indeed big enough for any yacht, smaller boats or even a kayak offer a different experience.	Although coastal archipelagos and the larger lakes are indeed large enough for a yacht, smaller boats or even a kayak offer a different experience.
French: L'eau se déverse sur la digue dans une section de 100 pieds de large. = English: Water is spilling over the levee in a section 100 feet wide.	If you only go ashore using shipboard excursions you will not need a separate visa (as of 2009).	If you only go ashore on cruise excursions, you will not need a separate visa (from 2009).
French: Apia est la capitale des Samoa. La ville se trouve sur l'île d'Upolu et compte un peu moins de 40 000 habitants. = English: Apia is the capital of Samoa. The town is on the island of Upolu and has a population of just under 40,000.	Fire rescue crews eventually doused the fire by 11:35 pm.	The fire brigade finally put out the fire at 23 h 35.
French: Le concept est venu de Chine où les fleurs de prunier étaient la fleur de prédilection. = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	The U.N. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts.	The UN hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by climate change to cope with the impacts.
French: Comme la pollution lumineuse à leur époque n'était pas aussi préoccupant qu'aujourd'hui, ils sont généralement situés dans des villes ou sur des campus, plus faciles d'accès que ceux construits à l'époque moderne. = English: As light pollution in their heyday was not the kind of problem it is today, they are usually located in cities or at campuses, easier to reach than those built in modern times.	At the other end of the spectrum, one morphs into an unrecognizable individual that feels he or she must change everything the team has been doing and make it their own.	At the other end of the spectrum, one transforms into a completely unrecognizable individual who feels he/she must change everything the group has created so far and do things his/her way.
French: Layton avait demandé des changements au sujet du projet de loi environnemental des conservateurs lors de la réunion avec le premier ministre, demandant une « reformulation complète et approfondie » du projet de loi environnemental du parti conservateur. = English: Layton had asked for changes to the conservatives' environmental bill during the meeting with the PM, asking for a "thorough and complete rewriting" of the Conservative party's environmental bill.	The Guaraní were the most significant indigenous group inhabiting what is now Eastern Paraguay, living as semi-nomadic hunters who also practised subsistence agriculture.	The Guaraní were the largest indigenous group living in what is now eastern Paraguay, living as semi-nomadic hunters and also practicing subsistence agriculture.
French: Le plateau de Gizeh, ou « nécropole de Gizeh », dans la vallée des Morts en Égypte, regroupe plusieurs pyramides (la grande pyramide étant la plus imposante), plusieurs petits tombeaux, de nombreux temples et le grand Sphinx. = English: The Giza Plateau, or "Giza Necropolis" in the Egyptian Valley of the Dead contains several pyramids (of which the great pyramid is the largest), several small tombs, several temples, and the great Sphinx.	Please treat the site with all of the dignity, solemnity and respect it deserves. Do not make jokes about the Holocaust or Nazis.	Please treat the site with all the dignity, solemnity and respect it deserves. Do not make jokes about the Holocaust or the Nazis.
French: Habituellement, on entend toujours le bruit des touristes et des vendeurs. L’histoire du son et de la lumière est comme un livre d’histoire. = English: Usually you always here the sound of tourists and vendors. The story of the sound and light is just like a story book.	Swirl the two dry powders together and then, with clean wet hands, squeeze them into a ball.	Mix the two dry powders together, then, with your clean and wet hands, press them into a ball.
French: D'autre part, la présence de glace et de neige est normale dans de nombreux pays, et la circulation est pratiquement ininterrompue toute l'année. = English: On the other hand, icy and snowy conditions are normal in many countries, and traffic goes on mostly uninterrupted all year round.	Scaffolds can be both virtual and real, in other words, a teacher is a form of scaffold but so is the little paperclip man in Microsoft Office.	Support can be both virtual and real. In other words, a teacher is a form of support, but so is the little trombone man in Microsoft Office.
French: Les autorités supposent que cela signifie que les réservoirs de combustible d'uranium sur le site comporteraient des fissures et des fuites. = English: Authorities speculate that this indicates that containers holding uranium fuel at the site may have ruptured and are leaking.	Twentieth century research has shown that there are two pools of genetic variation: hidden and expressed.	Research in the twentieth century has shown that there are two reservoirs of genetic variation: hidden and expressed.
French: Le ministère a réagi en qualifiant de « vraiment regrettable » l'ajournement du rapport par Apple. = English: The ministry responded by calling Apple's postponement of the report "truly regrettable."	This is an important way to distinguish between some verbs and objects.	This is a great way to distinguish between certain verbs and objects.
French: Cependant, un réseau routier national n'est pas économiquement viable pour une poignée de voitures, c'est pourquoi de nouvelles méthodes de production sont développées pour réduire le coût de la possession d'une voiture. = English: However, a nationwide road network is not economically viable for just a handful of cars, so new methods of production are developed to reduce the cost of car ownership.	Since there was limited response to this tactic, Germany expected a similar response to its unrestricted submarine warfare.	As this tactic only provoked a tepid response, Germany expected a similar response to its unrestricted submarine warfare.
French: Il y a de nombreuses répercussions sociales et politiques telles que l'utilisation du système métrique, le passage de l'absolutisme au républicanisme, le nationalisme et la conviction que le pays appartient au peuple et non à un seul dirigeant. = English: There are a lot of social and political effects such as the use of metric system, a shift from absolutism to republicanism, nationalism and the belief the country belongs to the people not to one sole ruler.	It is obvious enough that the world has changed much because of humankind's scientific and technological advancements, and problems have become greater because of overpopulation and mankind's extravagant lifestyle.	It is clear that the world has changed a lot thanks to the scientific and technological progress made by humans, and that problems have become more important due to overpopulation and extravagant human lifestyle.
French: Nous appelons ce processus « spéciation », ce qui signifie simplement la formation de nouvelles espèces. La spéciation est une conséquence inévitable et une partie très importante de l’évolution. = English: We call this process speciation, which just means the formation of new species. Speciation is an unavoidable consequence and a very important part of evolution.	Gosling and Stone received nominations for Best Actor and Actress respectively.	Goldblum and Stone were nominated for Best Actor and Best Actress.
French: Elle a d'abord participé au slalom, où elle a obtenu un « did not finish » (DNF) lors de sa première course. 36 des 116 concurrents ont obtenu le même résultat dans cette course. = English: Her first was the Slalom, where she earned a Did Not Finish in her first run. 36 of the 116 competitors had the same result in that race.	They all ran back from where the accident had happened.	They all ran back to the place where the accident had occurred.
French: Hu a encouragé les pays en voie de développement « à éviter l'ancienne méthode qui consistait à polluer d'abord et à nettoyer ensuite ». = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	Scaffolding is not a method of learning but rather an aid that provides support to individuals whom are undergoing a new learning experience such as using a new computer program or beginning a new project.	Support is not a learning method but rather a means of helping learners who are discovering a new teaching approach, such as the use of a new program or the beginning of a new project.
French: Selon les scientifiques, les ocelots traquent et trouvent les animaux à manger (proies) par l'odorat, en reniflant leur trajet sur le sol. = English: Scientists think that ocelots follow and find animals to eat (prey) by smell, sniffing for where they've been on the ground.	Travellers who had an easy time adjusting to the new culture sometimes have a particularly hard time readjusting to their native culture.	Travelers who have had trouble adapting to the new culture sometimes have a hard time readapting to their original culture.
French: Depuis l'Antiquité, les peuples sont familiers des éléments chimiques de base comme l'or, l'argent et le cuivre, car ils se trouvent dans la nature sous forme brute et sont assez simples à miner à l'aide d'outils primitifs. = English: People have known about basic chemical elements such as gold, silver, and copper from antiquity, as these can all be discovered in nature in native form and are relatively simple to mine with primitive tools.	Persian has a relatively easy and mostly regular grammar.	Persian has a relatively easy and mostly regular grammar.
French: Cependant, le pourcentage de TB-UR dans l’ensemble du groupe de personnes atteintes de tuberculose semble encore faible ; 6 000 personnes sur un total de 330 000 ont été infectées à un moment donné en Afrique du Sud. = English: However, the percentage of XDR-TB in the entire group of people with tuberculosis still seems to be low; 6,000 of the total 330,000 people infected at any particular moment in South Africa.	One bomb exploded outside the governor general's office.	A bomb exploded in front of the governor general’s office.
French: Son autre course, le slalom géant, lui a permis de terminer à la dixième place du groupe des femmes assises avec un temps combiné de 4:41.30, soit 2:11.60 minutes de moins que l'Autrichienne Claudia Loesch, arrivée première, et 1:09.02 minutes de moins que la Hongroise Gyöngyi Dani, arrivée neuvième. = English: Her other race, the Giant Slalom, saw her finish in tenth in the women's sitting group with a combined run time of 4:41.30, 2:11.60 minutes slower than first place finisher Austrian Claudia Loesch and 1:09.02 minutes slower than the ninth place finisher Gyöngyi Dani of Hungary.	First among its 78 recommendations is that a new diplomatic initiative should be taken before the end of this year to secure Iraq’s borders against hostile interventions and to re-establish diplomatic relations with its neighbors.	The first of her 78 recommendations is that a new diplomatic initiative should be taken before the end of the year to secure Iraq's borders against hostile interventions and to restore diplomatic relations with its neighbours.
French: Une étude publiée jeudi dans la revue Science a fait état de la genèse d'une nouvelle espèce d'oiseau dans les îles Galápagos équatoriennes. = English: A study published on Thursday in the journal Science reported on formation of a new bird species on the Ecuadorean Galápagos Islands.	Stirrups are supports for the rider's feet that hang down on either side of the saddle.	Stirrups are supports for the rider's feet, which hang from each side of the saddle.
French: La majeure partie de la vie de la famille hébraïque se déroulait en plein air. = English: Most of the life of the Hebrew family happened in the open air.	Madagascar is by far the biggest, and a continent on its own when it comes to wildlife.	Madagascar is by far the largest country, and even a continent in its own right, when it comes to fauna.
French: Ensuite, Lakkha Singh a pris l'initiative de chanter les bhajans. = English: Then, Lakkha Singh took the lead in singing the bhajans.	The D-Day landings and the following battles had freed the north of France, but the south still wasn't free.	The D-Day landing and the subsequent battles liberated northern France, but southern France was still not free.
French: Internet allie des éléments de communication de masse et de communication interpersonnelle. = English: The Internet combines elements of both mass and interpersonal communication.	This offers a good opportunity to see the Aurora borealis, as the sky will be dark more or less around the clock.	This is a good opportunity to admire the northern lights, as the sky will be dark practically all day.
French: Il y a aussi quelques bus qui se rendent au nord à Hébron, le lieu de sépulture traditionnel des patriarches bibliques, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob et leurs épouses. = English: There are also a few buses going north to Hebron, the traditional burial place of the Biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and their wives.	In 1989 he helped create The Simpsons with Brooks and Groening, and was responsible for hiring the show's first writing team.	In 1989, he participated in the creation of the Simpsons with Brooks and Groening and was responsible for hiring the first team of writers for the series.
French: La grotte elle-même, qui a survécu à l’époque, donne une image très vivante des penchants spirituels de Muhammad. = English: he cave itself, which survived the times, gives a very vivid image of Muhammad’s spiritual inclinations.	The luminosity and rotation are used together to determine a star's Rossby number, which is related to plasma flow.	Luminosity and rotation are used jointly to determine the Rossby number of a star, which is related to the plasma flux.
French: La région abrite également une très grande variété d'espèces animales et d'oiseaux. = English: The area is also home to an extremely wide variety of animal and bird species.	On the other hand, icy and snowy conditions are normal in many countries, and traffic goes on mostly uninterrupted all year round.	On the other hand, the presence of ice and snow is normal in many countries, and traffic is virtually uninterrupted all year round.
French: Veuillez traiter le site avec toute la dignité, la solennité et le respect qu'il mérite. Ne faites pas de blagues sur l'Holocauste ou les nazis. = English: Please treat the site with all of the dignity, solemnity and respect it deserves. Do not make jokes about the Holocaust or Nazis.	Many common formats (APS family of formats, for example) are equal to or closely approximate this aspect ratio.	Many common formats (such as the APS family of formats) are equal to this aspect ratio or are very close to it.
French: Les satellites, qui pesaient tous les deux plus de 450 kg et se déplaçaient à environ 28000 km/h, sont entrés en collision à 790 km au-dessus de la Terre. = English: The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	These theories look at what it is about certain people that make them want the things that they do and what things in their environment will make them do or not do certain things.	These theories examine what motivates people to want what they do and what in their environment motivates them to do or not do certain things.
French: Si vous visitez un jardin strictement aménagé, le prélèvement de « spécimens » va également vous faire expulser sans discussion. = English: If visiting a formally arranged garden, collecting "specimens" is also going to get you ejected, without discussion.	Dr. Tony Moll discovered the Extremely Drug Resistant Tuberculosis (XDR-TB) in the South African region KwaZulu-Natal.	Dr Tony Moll discovered multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (TB-MR) in the South African province of KwaZulu-Natal.
French: On peut également dire qu’elle facilite la lecture, bien que l’écriture soit quelque peu compliquée par la nécessité de savoir si un verbe ou un adjectif est utilisé sous une forme substantivisée. = English: It also arguably makes reading easier, though writing is somewhat complicated by the need to find out whether a verb or adjective is used in a substantivized form.	Lions, cheetahs and leopards are sometimes shy and you will see them better with binoculars.	Lions, cheetahs and leopards are sometimes shy and you will see them better with binoculars.
French: Parmi les autres sujets abordés figurent le futur État de Jérusalem, qui est sacré pour les deux nations, et la question de la vallée du Jourdain. = English: Other topics covered reportedly include the future state of Jerusalem which is sacred to both nations and the Jordan Valley issue.	The other nominations include Best Picture, Director, Cinematography, Costume Design, Film-editing, Original Score, Production Design, Sound Editing, Sound Mixing and Original Screenplay.	Other nominations include those for best film, best director, best cinematography, best costumes, best editing, best original music, best sets, best sound editing, best sound mixing and best original screenplay.
French: L'influence européenne et le colonialisme ont débuté au XVe siècle, à l’époque où l'explorateur portugais Vasco de Gama découvrit la route du Cap qui relie l'Europe à L'Inde. = English: European influence and colonialism began in the 15th century, as Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama found the Cape Route from Europe to India.	First, most riders wear riding boots with a heel and a smooth, quite narrow, sole.	First of all, most riders wear riding boots with a heel and a smooth and narrow sole.
French: Les enfants sont placés dans des familles d’accueil pour des raisons très diverses qui vont de la négligence à la maltraitance, en passant par l’extorsion. = English: Children are placed in Foster Care for a wide variety of reasons that range from neglect, to abuse, and even to extortion.	The Madhya Pradesh Police recovered the stolen laptop and mobile phone.	The Madhya Pradesh police recovered the stolen laptop and mobile phone.
French: En raison du nombre important de personnes présentes, il n'a pas été possible pour tout le monde d'assister aux funérailles sur la place Saint-Pierre. = English: The number of people present was so large that it was not possible for everybody to gain access to the funeral in St. Peter's Square.	That didn't seem to make sense to me; it certainly wasn't fair.	It did not seem logical to me; it certainly was not fair.
French: Le persan a une grammaire relativement facile et la plupart du temps régulière. = English: Persian has a relatively easy and mostly regular grammar.	The views presented are often cursory, general and oversimplified compared to the more detailed information available elsewhere.	The opinions presented are often superficial, general and too simplified compared to the more detailed information available elsewhere.
French: Lors de certains festivals de musique, la grande majorité des participants décident de camper sur place, et la plupart considèrent que cela fait partie intégrante de l'expérience. = English: For some festivals, the vast majority of the attendants to music festivals decide to camp on site, and most attendants consider it a vital part of the experience.	In France, voting has traditionally been a low-tech experience: voters isolate themselves in a booth, put a pre-printed sheet of paper indicating their candidate of choice into an envelope.	In France, voting is traditionally a low-tech experience: voters go into a booth, put in an envelope a pre-printed paper sheet indicating the candidate of their choice.
French: Aux États-Unis, il y a environ 400 000 cas connus de sclérose en plaques (SEP), ce qui en fait la principale maladie neurologique chez les jeunes et les adultes d’âge moyen. = English: Across the United States of America, there are approximately 400,000 known cases of Multiple Sclerosis (MS), leaving it as the leading neurological disease in younger and middle aged adults.	The vertical clearance under the bridge is 15 meters. Construction was completed in August 2011, it didn't open to traffic until March 2017.	The vertical clearance under the bridge is 15 meters. The structure was completed in August 2011, but it was only opened to traffic in March 2017.
French: Les taxis collectifs sont un moyen rapide et confortable de se rendre dans des endroits proches, tels que Paro (150 Nu) et Punakha (200 Nu). = English: Shared taxis are a quick and comfortable means to travel to nearby places, such as Paro (Nu 150) and Punakha (Nu 200).	As light pollution in their heyday was not the kind of problem it is today, they are usually located in cities or at campuses, easier to reach than those built in modern times.	As light pollution was not as much of a concern back then, they are usually located in cities or on campuses, easier to access than those built in modern times.
French: Les gens écrivent maintenant des messages sur des écrans d'ordinateur, sans jamais avoir à s'approcher d'un taille-crayon. = English: People now write messages on computer screens, never having to come close to a sharpener.	Italy's national football, along with German national football team is the second most successful team in the world and were the FIFA World Cup champions in 2006.	The Italian national football team is, with the German national team, the second most successful team in the world and won the FIFA World Cup in 2006.
French: Les taxis collectifs sont un moyen rapide et confortable de se rendre dans des endroits proches, tels que Paro (150 Nu) et Punakha (200 Nu). = English: Shared taxis are a quick and comfortable means to travel to nearby places, such as Paro (Nu 150) and Punakha (Nu 200).	South Shetland Islands, discovered in 1819, are claimed by several nations and have the most bases, with sixteen active in 2020.	The South Shetland Islands, discovered in 1819, are claimed by several nations and have the largest number of research stations and sixteen of them are active in 2020.
French: Au début de cette semaine, l'accident d'un hélicoptère de la police a tué trois personnes et en a blessé trois autres. = English: Earlier this week, a police helicopter crash killed three people and wounded three more.	In 1895, after defeat in the First Sino-Japanese War (1894-1895), the Qing government signs the Treaty of Shimonoseki, by which it cedes sovereignty over Taiwan to Japan, which rules the island until 1945.	In 1895, after its defeat in the first Sino-Japanese War (1894–1895), the Qing government signed the Treaty of Shimonoseki, by which it ceded sovereignty over Taiwan to Japan, which then ruled the island until 1945.
French: Les bus inter-districts sont souvent complets, aussi est-il conseillé d'acheter un ticket quelques jours à l'avance. = English: As the inter-district buses are often full, it is advisable to purchase a ticket a few days in advance.	Del Potro had the early advantage in the second set, but this too required a tie break after reaching 6-6.	Despite the clear advantage of Del Potro during the second set, it was necessary to go through a tie-break once the score reached 6-6.
French: L'Indonésie comptant 17 000 îles, la cuisine indonésienne est un terme générique qui couvre une grande variété de cuisines régionales présentes dans tout le pays. = English: With 17,000 islands to choose from, Indonesian food is an umbrella term covering a vast variety of regional cuisines found across the nation.	Ancient Roman meals couldn't have included foods that came to Europe from America or from Asia in later centuries.	Roman meals of antiquity could not include these American or Asian foods that were introduced to Europe centuries later.
French: « L’implication personnelle » et « les relations continues » ont également été identifiées comme étant de nouveaux aspects motivationnels par Eighmey et McCord (1998) lorsqu’ils ont étudié les réactions du public vis-à-vis des sites internet. = English: “Personal involvement” and “continuing relationships” were also identified as new motivation aspects by Eighmey and McCord (1998) when they investigated audience reactions to websites.	Yet eighty percent of our goods were taxed through tariffs in Central American countries. we treat you.	Yet, 80 percent of our goods were taxed by customs duties in Central America. We take care of you.
French: Il a qualifié les rumeurs de « bavardages et de bêtises politiques ». = English: He referred to the rumors as "political chatter and silliness".	They provide greater stability for the rider but can have safety concerns due to the potential for a rider's feet to get stuck in them.	They offer greater stability to the user, but they can pose a safety problem: indeed, the user's feet can get stuck in them.
French: « Nous avons à présent des souris de 4 mois qui ne sont pas diabétiques alors qu'elles l'étaient auparavant », a-t-il ajouté. = English: "We now have 4-month-old mice that are non-diabetic that used to be diabetic," he added.	Re-entry shock comes on sooner than culture shock (there's less of a honeymoon phase), lasts longer, and can be more severe.	The re-entry shock occurs earlier than the culture shock (the honeymoon phase is shorter), lasts longer and can be more severe.
French: Duvall, qui est marié et a deux enfants adultes, n’a pas fait bonne impression à Miller, à qui l’histoire a été relatée. = English: Duvall, who is married with two adult children, did not leave a big impression on Miller, to whom the story was related.	Beyond Wednesday's event, Carpanedo competed in two individual races at the Championships.	Apart from the Wednesday event, Carpanedo participated in two individual races at the Championships.
French: Les travailleurs doivent souvent obtenir l'accord de leurs supérieurs pour toute décision qu'ils prennent et sont censés obéir aux instructions de leurs supérieurs sans poser de questions. = English: Workers must often get their superiors' approval for any decisions they make, and are expected to obey their superiors' instructions without question.	The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	The concept came from China where the plum blossom was the flower of choice.
French: La ville contraste fortement avec les cités du reste du pays, car elle possède un style davantage arabe qu'africain. = English: The city is in stark contrast to the rest of the country's cities, because it has more of an Arabic flair than of an African.	She directed officers to her black Oldsmobile Intrigue which was 500 feet away.	She directed the officers to her black Oldsmobile Intrigue, which was 500 feet away.
French: Ils ont été contraints de payer des impôts au régime colonial américain pour couvrir une grande partie des dépenses et des intérêts des obligations émises au nom du gouvernement philippin par les établissements bancaires de Wall Street. = English: They were compelled to pay taxes to the U.S. colonial regime to defray a major part of the expenditures and the interest on bonds floated in the name of the Philippine government through the Wall Street banking houses.	Infectious diseases themselves, or dangerous animals that can injure or kill people by force, do not usually qualify as pests.	Infectious diseases themselves, or dangerous animals that can injure or kill people by force, are not usually considered parasites.
French: Il a été accueilli par Wong Kan Seng, le vice-premier ministre de Singapour, et a discuté de commerce et de terrorisme avec Lee Hsien Loong, le Premier ministre de Singapour. = English: He was greeted by Singapore's Deputy Prime Minister Wong Kan Seng and discussed trade and terrorism issues with the Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.	His research showed that if a hormone was administered it would speed up the baby's foetal lung maturation.	His research has shown that if a hormone is administered, it will accelerate the baby's lung maturation.
French: Bien que trois personnes aient été présentes dans la maison quand la voiture l'a percutée, aucune n'a été blessée. = English: Although three people were inside the house when the car impacted it, none of them were hurt.	Research has found that females are two times more likely to have MS then males.	Research has shown that women are twice as likely to have multiple sclerosis as men.
French: Son autre course, le slalom géant, lui a permis de terminer à la dixième place du groupe des femmes assises avec un temps combiné de 4:41.30, soit 2:11.60 minutes de moins que l'Autrichienne Claudia Loesch, arrivée première, et 1:09.02 minutes de moins que la Hongroise Gyöngyi Dani, arrivée neuvième. = English: Her other race, the Giant Slalom, saw her finish in tenth in the women's sitting group with a combined run time of 4:41.30, 2:11.60 minutes slower than first place finisher Austrian Claudia Loesch and 1:09.02 minutes slower than the ninth place finisher Gyöngyi Dani of Hungary.	Finally, there are many small cats (including loose pet cats) that eat the far more numerous small prey like insects, rodents, lizards, and birds.	In addition, there are many small cats (including free-roaming pet cats) that eat the many small prey, such as insects, rodents, lizards and birds.
French: Un empoisonnement interne peut ne pas être visible immédiatement. Les symptômes, tels que les vomissements, sont suffisamment généraux pour qu'un diagnostic immédiat ne puisse pas être posé. = English: Internal poisoning may not be immediately apparent. Symptoms, such as vomiting are sufficiently general that an immediate diagnosis cannot be made.	It was at this time that the transfer of the title of Fashion Capital from Constantinople to Paris was made.	It was at this time that the title of capital of fashion was transferred from Constantinople to Paris.
French: Les opinions présentées sont souvent superficielles, générales et trop simplifiées par rapport aux informations plus détaillées disponibles ailleurs. = English: The views presented are often cursory, general and oversimplified compared to the more detailed information available elsewhere.	In a partnership of NPWS and the Sporting Shooters Association of Australia (NSW) Inc, qualified volunteers were recruited, under the Sporting Shooters Association's hunting program.	In the context of a partnership between NPWS and the Sporting Shooters Association of Australia (NSW) Inc., qualified volunteers were recruited, as part of the Sporting Shooters Association's hunting program.
French: Vallée de Cochamó – La destination d'excellence pour l'escalade au Chili, connue comme le Yosemite d'Amérique du Sud, avec de nombreuses grandes parois et falaises granitiques différentes. = English: Cochamó Valley - Chile's premier climbing destination, known as the Yosemite of South America, with a variety of granite big walls and crags.	It had been scheduled to be cut down on Tuesday, but was saved after an emergency court ruling.	He was supposed to be shot on Tuesday, but he was saved due to an emergency court decision.
French: Voyager en avion peut être une expérience effrayante pour les personnes de tous âges et de tous horizons, en particulier si elles n'ont jamais volé auparavant ou ont vécu un événement traumatisant. = English: Travelling by plane can be a scary experience for people of all ages and backgrounds, particularly if they've not flown before or have experienced a traumatic event.	Police said that the body appeared to have been there for about a day.	The police said it would seem that the body had been there for about a day.
French: La grande majorité du développement urbain de l’île de Hong Kong est concentrée sur les terre-pleins de la rive nord. = English: The great majority of Hong Kong Island's urban development is densely packed on reclaimed land along the northern shore.	Six hostages, including the children and elderly, were released early, as were the Filipino photographers.	Six hostages, including children and the elderly, were released prematurely, as were the Filipino photographers.
French: Le village de Haldarsvík offre des vues sur l’île voisine d’Eysturoy et abrite une église octogonale inhabituelle. = English: The village of Haldarsvík offer views of the nearby island Eysturoy and has an unusual octagonal church.	Booking in advance gives the traveller peace of mind that they will have somewhere to sleep once they arrive at their destination.	Booking in advance gives the traveller peace of mind knowing that they will have somewhere to sleep once they arrive at their destination.
French: Ce sédiment était nécessaire à la création de bancs de sable et de plages, qui servaient d’habitats à la faune. = English: This sediment was necessary for creating sandbars and beaches, which served as wildlife habitats.	A walking safari (also called a "bush walk", "hiking safari", or going "footing") consists of hiking, either for a few hours or several days.	A walking safari (also called "bush walk", "pedestrian safari" or "footing") consists of hiking, either for a few hours, or for several days.
French: En 1989, il a participé à la création des Simpsons avec Brooks et Groening et a été responsable de l'embauche de la première équipe de scénaristes de la série. = English: In 1989 he helped create The Simpsons with Brooks and Groening, and was responsible for hiring the show's first writing team.	Five minutes into the display a wind starts rolling in, about a minute later, the wind is reaching 70km/h... then the rain comes, but so hard and so large that it slaps your skin like a needle, then hail fell from the sky, people panicking and screaming and running over each other.	Five minutes into the show, a wind starts to blow, reaching about a minute later a speed of 70km/h... then the rain comes, but so strong and so big that it hits your skin like a needle, then hail falls from the sky, people panic, scream and roll over each other.
French: Quiconque envisage de se rendre dans un pays qui pourrait être considéré comme une zone de guerre devrait recevoir une formation professionnelle. = English: Anyone planning a visit to a country that could be considered a war zone should get professional training.	Willingness of foreign governments to honour these documents is just as widely variable.	The willingness of foreign governments to honor these documents is just as variable.
French: Le National Hurricane Center (NHC) affirme qu'à ce stade, Jerry ne représente aucune menace pour les terres. = English: The National Hurricane Center (NHC) says that at this point Jerry poses no threat to land.	For instance, they didn't have corn, nor tomatoes, nor potatoes, nor cocoa, and no ancient Roman ever tasted a turkey.	For example, they had no corn, tomatoes, potatoes, cocoa, and no ancient Roman ever tasted turkey.
French: D'autre part, la présence de glace et de neige est normale dans de nombreux pays, et la circulation est pratiquement ininterrompue toute l'année. = English: On the other hand, icy and snowy conditions are normal in many countries, and traffic goes on mostly uninterrupted all year round.	The main Amazon River is 6,387 km (3,980 miles). It collects water from thousands of smaller rivers.	The main arm of the Amazon River is 6,387 km (3,980 mi) long. It collects the water of thousands of small rivers.
French: Les opinions présentées sont souvent superficielles, générales et trop simplifiées par rapport aux informations plus détaillées disponibles ailleurs. = English: The views presented are often cursory, general and oversimplified compared to the more detailed information available elsewhere.	USA Gymnastics supports an independent investigation that may shine light on how abuse of the proportion described so courageously by the survivors of Larry Nassar could have gone undetected for so long and embraces any necessary and appropriate changes.	USA Gymnastics supports an independent investigation that could shed light on how the abuse described so courageously by the survivors of Larry Nassar could have gone unnoticed for so long and adopts any necessary and appropriate changes.
French: Ils ont mené deux expériences pour marquer soit l’ADN du phage avec un phosphore radioactif, soit la protéine du phage avec du soufre radioactif. = English: They did two experiments marking either the DNA in the phage with a radioactive phosphorus or the protein of the phage with radioactive sulfur.	The stretch between Point Marion and Fairmont presents the most challenging driving conditions on the Buffalo-Pittsburgh Highway, passing frequently through isolated backwoods terrain.	The section between Point Marion and Fairmont presents the most difficult driving conditions on the Buffalo-Pittsburgh highway, frequently passing through isolated backcountry terrain.
French: Le bouddhisme tibétain est basé sur les enseignements de Bouddha, mais a été enrichi par le chemin de l'amour mahayana et par de nombreuses techniques du yoga indien. = English: The Tibetan Buddhism is based on the teachings of Buddha, but were extended by the mahayana path of love and by a lot of techniques from Indian Yoga.	The commission was Martelly's response to widespread anti-regime protests that started in October.	This commission was the response of Martelly to the vast protests against the regime that began in October.
French: Le concept est venu de Chine où les fleurs de prunier étaient la fleur de prédilection. = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	Subsistence agriculture is agriculture carried out for the production of enough food to meet just the needs of the agriculturalist and his/her family.	Subsistence agriculture is an agriculture practiced to produce enough food to meet only the needs of the farmer and his family.
French: Le tout premier moyen de locomotion était la marche : les humains se mirent à marcher debout il y a deux millions d'années avec l'arrivée de l'Homo Erectus (« homme droit »). = English: The first known transportation was walking, humans began walking upright two million years ago with the emergence of Homo Erectus (meaning upright man).	Curtis Cooper, a mathematician and computer science professor at the University of Central Missouri, has discovered the largest known prime number to date on January 25.	Curtis Cooper, a mathematician and computer science professor at the University of Central Missouri, discovered the largest known prime number on January 25.
French: Il n'avait pas non plus le pouvoir de déroger aux lois fiscales ni à celles sur les droits de douane entre les États. = English: It also had no authority to override tax laws and tariffs between states.	Late on Sunday, the United States President Donald Trump, in a statement delivered via the press secretary, announced US troops would be leaving Syria.	Late Sunday, U.S. President Donald Trump, in a statement made through the press secretary, announced that U.S. troops would be withdrawing from Syria.
French: Nous percevons le système de placement familial comme une zone de sécurité pour ces enfants. = English: We perceive the Foster Care System to be a safety zone for these children.	Mass car ownership also leads to a higher incidence of accidents on the roads, which leads to the invention of new techniques in healthcare for repairing damaged bodies.	The massive ownership of cars also leads to a greater incidence of accidents on the roads, which leads to the invention of new techniques in the field of health care to treat bodily injuries.
French: Les critères qui déterminent une sous-culture comme distincte peuvent être linguistiques, esthétiques, religieux, politiques, sexuels, géographiques ou une combinaison de facteurs. = English: The qualities that determine a subculture as distinct may be linguistic, aesthetic, religious, political, sexual, geographical, or a combination of factors.	The park covers 19,500 km² and is divided in 14 different ecozones, each supporting different wildlife.	The total area of the park is 19,500 km², which is divided into 14 ecozones, each of which is home to a specific fauna.
French: À l'autre bout du spectre, l'un se transforme en un individu méconnaissable qui sent qu'il/elle doit changer tout ce que le groupe a créé jusqu'alors et faire les choses à sa manière. = English: At the other end of the spectrum, one morphs into an unrecognizable individual that feels he or she must change everything the team has been doing and make it their own.	The accused are named as Baba Kanjar, Bhutha Kanjar, Rampro Kanjar, Gaza Kanjar and Vishnu Kanjar.	The accused are Baba Kanjar, Bhutha Kanjar, Rampro Kanjar, Gaza Kanjar and Vishnu Kanjar.
French: La seule manière de le faire parvenir plus rapidement était de l'envoyer en tant que bagage enregistré. Les réglementations aériennes ne les autoriseront pas à envoyer un bagage sans passager, et c'est là que vous intervenez. = English: The only way to get it through faster was to send it as checked luggage. Airline regulations will not allow them to send luggage without a passenger, which is where you come in.	Earlier the Chinese news agency Xinhua reported a plane to be hijacked.	Xinhua, the Chinese news agency, has previously announced the news of the hijacking of a plane.
French: Le satellite reçoit l'appel dans l'espace puis le renvoie sur Terre, presque instantanément. = English: The satellite in space gets the call and then reflects it back down, almost instantly.	Out of 1,400 people polled prior to the 2010 federal election, those who oppose Australia becoming a republic grew by 8 per cent since 2008.	A survey of 1,400 people before the 2010 federal elections revealed that the number of opponents to Australia becoming a republic had increased by 8 percent since 2008.
French: De même que les hommes doivent porter un pantalon couvrant les genoux. = English: Along the same line, men are required to wear trousers covering the knees.	Lions are the most social cats, living in large groups called prides.	Lions are the most sociable cats, living in large groups called packs.
French: Madagascar est de loin le plus grand pays, et même un continent à lui tout seul, s'agissant de faune. = English: Madagascar is by far the biggest, and a continent on its own when it comes to wildlife.	Spokesman for Medecines Sans Frontiere Richard Veerman said: "Angola is heading for its worst ever outbreak and the situation remains very bad in Angola," he said.	The spokesman for Médecins Sans Frontières, Richard Veerman, said : « Angola is heading towards the worst epidemic ever known and the situation remains very bad in Angola », he said.
French: Dans un carrosse, ils sont rentrés à Paris entourés d’une foule de gens qui hurlent et crient des menaces contre le roi et la reine. = English: In a carriage, they traveled back to Paris surrounded by a mob of people screaming and shouting threats against the King and Queen.	Also after the Revolution occupations were open to all male applicants allowing the most ambitious and successful to succeed.	So, after the Revolution, the trades were opened to all male candidates, allowing the most ambitious and talented to succeed.
French: Dans de nombreux cas, il s’agit d’un traitement symptomatique. Cependant, si nous ne voulons pas seulement une solution temporaire, nous devons trouver la racine des problèmes et les désactiver. = English: This is just like symptomatic treatment in many cases. However, if we do not only want a temporary solution, then we should find the root of the problems, and we should deactivate them.	Cuomo, 53, began his governorship earlier this year and signed a bill last month legalizing same-sex marriage.	Cuomo, 53 years old, started his term as governor at the beginning of this year and signed a bill legalizing same-sex marriage last month.
French: Chandra Shekhar Solanki, commissaire de police, a déclaré que les personnes accusées avaient le visage dissimulé lorsqu'elles ont comparu devant le tribunal. = English: Police superintendent Chandra Shekhar Solanki said the accused appeared in court with covered faces.	The great majority of Hong Kong Island's urban development is densely packed on reclaimed land along the northern shore.	Most of the urban development on Hong Kong Island is concentrated on the north bank reclamation areas.
French: Au cours de la fin du Moyen Âge, l'Europe occidentale a commencé à développer son propre style. Un des plus grands progrès de l'époque, suite aux croisades, fut l'utilisation de boutons pour la fermeture des vêtements. = English: towards the end of the Middle Ages western Europe began to develop their own style. one of the biggest developments of the time as a result of the crusades people began to use buttons to fasten clothing.	Comets may possibly have been a source of water delivery to the earth along with organic matter that can form proteins and support life.	Comets may have been a source of water for the earth, as well as organic matter that can form proteins and promote life.
French: Veuillez également vous assurer de prononcer « r » et « rr » d’une manière distincte : « caro » signifie « cher », tandis que « carro » signifie « chariot ». = English: Also, make sure to pronounce r and rr differently: caro means dear, whereas carro means chariot.	All animals that originally arrived in the islands came here either by swimming, flying or floating.	All the animals that arrived on these islands did so originally by water, swimming or aboard floating objects, or by air.
French: L'inspecteur général adjoint D.K. Arya a déclaré : « Nous avons arrêté cinq personnes pour avoir violé la ressortissante suisse, et nous avons récupéré son téléphone et son ordinateur portables. » = English: Deputy Inspector General D K Arya said, "We have arrested five persons who raped the Swiss woman and recovered her mobile and laptop".	The number of people present was so large that it was not possible for everybody to gain access to the funeral in St. Peter's Square.	Due to the large number of people present, it was not possible for everyone to attend the funeral on the St. Peter's Square.
French: Au fil du temps, à mesure que la nouvelle population s'adapte à son nouvel environnement, elle commence à ressembler de moins en moins à l'autre population. = English: Over time, as the new population begins to adapt to their new environment, they start to look less and less like the other population.	Children are placed in Foster Care for a wide variety of reasons that range from neglect, to abuse, and even to extortion.	Children are placed in foster homes for a wide variety of reasons that range from neglect to abuse, to extortion.
French: L'utilisation de navires pour le transport de marchandises est de loin le moyen le plus efficace pour déplacer de grandes quantités de personnes et de biens à travers les océans. = English: Using ships to transport goods is by far the most efficient way to move large amounts of people and goods across oceans.	The original population hasn't changed at all, they still need the same adaptations as before.	The original population has not changed at all, it still needs the same adaptations.
French: Les femmes doivent réaliser que certaines différences culturelles peuvent entraîner des comportements qu'elles considèrent comme du harcèlement. Il est en effet courant qu'elles soient suivies, attrapées par le bras, etc. = English: Women should realize that cultural differences may result in what they would consider harassment and it is not uncommon to be followed, grabbed by the arm, etc.	The harbor was the site of an infamous naval standoff in 1889 when seven ships from Germany, the US, and Britain refused to leave the harbor.	The port was the site of a notorious naval standoff in 1889, when seven ships from Germany, the United States and Britain refused to leave the port.
French: Les crocodiles d’eau salée ne vivent pas activement dans l’océan, leur habitat principal se trouve dans les estuaires des rivières au nord de Rockhampton. = English: Saltwater Crocodiles do not actively live in the ocean, their primary habitat is in river estuaries north from Rockhampton.	There are of course Christian theological explanations for this tradition, but it may well be a pre-Christian Spring and Fertility ritual.	There are of course Christian theological explanations for this tradition, but it could well be that it is a pre-Christian spring and fertility ritual.
French: « Ils sont plus frais que la surface environnante le jour et plus chauds la nuit ». = English: "They are cooler than the surrounding surface in the day and warmer at night.	The community irritation led to current efforts to draft a policy regarding sexual content for the site which hosts millions of openly-licensed media.	The community's discontent has led to the current efforts to design a policy on the sexual content of the site that hosts millions of free media.
French: Elle allait durer pendant les 40 années suivantes et verrait des affrontements réels, par le biais d'armées de substitution, sur des champs de bataille aussi bien en Afrique qu'en Asie, en Afghanistan, à Cuba et dans bien d'autres endroits. = English: It was to last for the next 40 years and would be fought for real, by proxy armies, on battlefields from Africa to Asia, in Afghanistan, Cuba and many other places.	The top of the tower was special sanctuary for the god.	The top of the tower was a special sanctuary for the god.
French: Dans les endroits reculés, sans réseau de téléphonie cellulaire, vous n'aurez peut-être pas d'autre choix que de recourir à la téléphonie par satellite. = English: In remote locations, without cell phone coverage, a satellite phone may be your only option.	"I was moved every time we did a rehearsal on this, from the bottom of my heart."	"I was moved every time we rehearsed on this subject, from the bottom of my heart."
French: Le Bureau de gestion des urgences des îles Mariannes du Nord a déclaré qu'aucun dégât n'avait été signalé dans ce pays. = English: The Northern Marianas emergency management office said that there were no damages reported in the nation.	Huhne and Pryce are scheduled to appear at the Westminster Magistrates Court on February 16.	Huhne and Pryce are due to appear in the Westminster Magistrates Court on February 16.
French: Le match s'est joué à un point, 21 à 20, mettant fin à la série de 15 victoires des All Blacks. = English: The final score was a one-point victory, 21 to 20, ending the All Blacks' 15 game winning streak.	There's a tradition to pass the Easter night awake at some exposed point to see the sunrise.	Easter is traditionally spent awake at a place in the open to see the sunrise.
French: On trouve des spécialisations bipèdes dans les fossiles d’Australopithecus d’il y a 4,2 à 3,9 millions d’années, bien que le Sahelanthropus ait pu marcher sur deux jambes il y a déjà sept millions d’années. = English: Bipedal specializations are found in Australopithecus fossils from 4.2-3.9 million years ago, although Sahelanthropus may have walked on two legs as early as seven million years ago.	The definition has geographic variations, where the age limit might be shorter in places such as North America than in Europe.	The criteria vary from place to place; in some parts of the world, such as North America, the age limit may be lower than that in Europe.
French: Un empoisonnement interne peut ne pas être visible immédiatement. Les symptômes, tels que les vomissements, sont suffisamment généraux pour qu'un diagnostic immédiat ne puisse pas être posé. = English: Internal poisoning may not be immediately apparent. Symptoms, such as vomiting are sufficiently general that an immediate diagnosis cannot be made.	Scientists hope to understand how planets form, especially how the Earth formed, since comets collided with the Earth long ago.	Scientists hope to understand how planets form, and more particularly how the Earth formed, since comets collided with it a long time ago.
French: Le concept est venu de Chine où les fleurs de prunier étaient la fleur de prédilection. = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	All nouns, alongside the word Sie for you, always begin with a capital letter, even in the middle of a sentence.	All names, followed by the word Sie which means you, always begin with a capital letter, even in the middle of a sentence.
French: À l'autre bout du spectre, l'un se transforme en un individu méconnaissable qui sent qu'il/elle doit changer tout ce que le groupe a créé jusqu'alors et faire les choses à sa manière. = English: At the other end of the spectrum, one morphs into an unrecognizable individual that feels he or she must change everything the team has been doing and make it their own.	Final results from Namibian presidential and parliamentary elections have indicated that the incumbent president, Hifikepunye Pohamba, has been reelected by a large margin.	The final results of the Namibian presidential and parliamentary elections indicate that incumbent president Hifikepunye Pohamba was re-elected by a large majority.
French: Parmi les autres sujets à l’ordre du jour à Bali figurent la sauvegarde des dernières forêts du monde et le partage des technologies pour aider les pays en développement à poursuivre leur croissance de manière moins polluante. = English: Other subjects on the agenda in Bali include saving the world's remaining forests, and sharing technologies to help developing nations grow in less-polluting ways.	More traditional churches often hold an Easter Vigil on Saturday night during the Easter weekend, with the congregations often breaking into celebration at the stroke of midnight to celebrate Christ's resurrection.	More traditional churches often hold a Easter Vigil service on Saturday night during Easter weekend, congregations often breaking into the celebration at midnight to celebrate the resurrection of Christ.
French: Les porcs sont porteurs de la maladie, qui est ensuite transmise à l'homme par les moustiques. = English: The disease is carried by pigs, which then migrates to humans through mosquitos.	The Haitian Institute for Justice and Democracy has referenced independent studies that suggest the Nepalese UN peacekeeping battalion unknowingly brought the disease to Haiti.	The Haitian Institute for Justice and Democracy referred to independent studies that suggest that the Nepalese UN peacekeeping battalion inadvertently brought the disease to Haiti.
French: Les scientifiques affirment que l'explosion causée par la collision a été massive. = English: Scientists say the explosion caused by the collision was massive.	The great pyramid was created to honor the Pharaoh Khufu, and many of the smaller pyramids, tombs, and temples were built to honor Khufu's wives and family members.	The Great Pyramid was built to honor the pharaoh Khufu, and many small pyramids, tombs and temples were built to honor his wives as well as members of his family.
French: Si vous avez vu le film Benjamin Gates et le Trésor des Templiers, vous pensez peut-être qu'une carte au trésor a été dessinée au dos de la Déclaration d'indépendance. = English: If you have watched the movie National Treasure, you may think a treasure map was written on the back of the Declaration of Independence.	Water is spilling over the levee in a section 100 feet wide.	Water is flowing over the dike in a 100-foot wide section.
French: Un empoisonnement interne peut ne pas être visible immédiatement. Les symptômes, tels que les vomissements, sont suffisamment généraux pour qu'un diagnostic immédiat ne puisse pas être posé. = English: Internal poisoning may not be immediately apparent. Symptoms, such as vomiting are sufficiently general that an immediate diagnosis cannot be made.	After the accident occurred, Gibson was transported to a hospital but died shortly afterwards.	Following the accident, Gibson was taken to hospital, but died immediately afterwards.
French: Apia est la capitale des Samoa. La ville se trouve sur l'île d'Upolu et compte un peu moins de 40 000 habitants. = English: Apia is the capital of Samoa. The town is on the island of Upolu and has a population of just under 40,000.	Dustin "Goldust" Runnels commented that "Luna was as freaky as me...maybe even more...love her and will miss her...hopefully she's in a better place."	Dustin « Goldust » Runnels commented that « Luna was as weird as me… if not even weirder… I love her and I will miss her… I hope she is in a better place. »
French: Les sociétés de transport sont bien rémunérées pour effectuer des livraisons rapides. Bien souvent, dans le cadre d'une réparation urgente, la question des délais est cruciale pour les documents, les marchandises ou les pièces de rechange qui s'y rapportent. = English: Courier companies are well paid for delivering things quickly. Frequently, time is very important with business documents, merchandise or spare parts for an urgent repair.	He did not set a figure for the cuts, saying they will be made based on China's economic output.	He did not quantify these reductions, saying they would be based on Chinese economic production.
French: Ils ont des pattes recouvertes d'écailles et pourvues de griffes, ils pondent des œufs et marchent sur leurs deux pattes arrière comme des T-Rex. = English: They have feet with scales and claws, they lay eggs, and they walk on their two back legs like a T-Rex.	Please remember that you are essentially visiting a mass grave site, as well as a site that has an almost incalculable meaning to a significant portion of the world's population.	Do not forget that you are visiting essentially a graveyard, as well as a site that has almost immeasurable significance for a large part of the world's population.
French: Tous les animaux qui sont arrivés sur ces îles l'ont fait à l'origine par les eaux, à la nage ou à bord d'objets flottants, ou par les airs. = English: All animals that originally arrived in the islands came here either by swimming, flying or floating.	I lost my sister and her friend, and on my way there were two disabled people in wheelchairs, people just jumping over and pushing them," Armand Versace said.	Armand Versace lost his sister and her friend, and on his way, there were two disabled people in wheelchairs, people who were just jumping and pushing them.
French: Certains pensaient qu’il avait raison, mais beaucoup croyaient le contraire : que le système solaire se déplaçait autour de la Terre, y compris le Soleil (et même les autres étoiles). = English: Some people thought he was right but many people believed the opposite; that the Solar System moved around the Earth, including the Sun (and even the other stars).	Sleep interruption is the process of purposefully awakening during your normal sleep period and falling asleep a short time later (10–60 minutes).	Sleep interruption is the process of intentionally waking up during your sleep period and falling asleep shortly after (10 to 60 minutes).
French: L’harmonie au lieu de travail est cruciale, car elle met l’accent sur l’effort collectif plutôt que de faire l’éloge des réalisations individuelles. = English: Workplace harmony is crucial, emphasizing group effort rather than praising individual accomplishments.	Large areas further north are quite sparsely populated and some is nearly uninhabited wilderness.	Large areas further north are sparsely populated and some are almost uninhabited in their natural state.
French: Lorsqu'ils sont entièrement élevés par des espèces non humaines, les enfants sauvages affichent des comportements (dans les limites de leurs dispositions physiques) presque identiques à ceux des animaux qui les ont élevés, tels que la peur ou l'indifférence envers les humains. = English: When completely brought up by non-human animals, the feral child exhibits behaviors (within physical limits) almost entirely like those of the particular care-animal, such as its fear of or indifference to humans.	There are also a few buses going north to Hebron, the traditional burial place of the Biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and their wives.	There are also some buses that go north to Hebron, the traditional burial place of the biblical patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and their wives.
French: Un nombre binaire ne peut avoir qu’une seule de deux valeurs : 0 ou 1. Ces nombres sont appelés des chiffres binaires, ou bits pour utiliser le jargon informatique. = English: A binary number can have only one of two values, i.e. 0 or 1, and these numbers are referred to as binary digits - or bits, to use computer jargon.	The show originally featured amateur voice actors, local to East Texas.	The show originally featured amateur voice actors from the eastern part of Texas.
French: Cela est devenu une pratique courante, mais le fer a causé plus d'usure sur les roues en bois des wagons. = English: This became common practice, but the iron caused more wear on the wooden wheels of the wagons.	When completely brought up by non-human animals, the feral child exhibits behaviors (within physical limits) almost entirely like those of the particular care-animal, such as its fear of or indifference to humans.	When raised entirely by non-human species, the wild children display behaviors (within the limits of their physical dispositions) almost identical to those of the animals that raised them, such as fear or indifference towards humans.
French: Les plantes produisent leur nourriture à l'aide du soleil par photosynthèse. Elles fournissent également de l’ombre. = English: Plants make their food from the sun by photosynthesis. They also provide shade.	Boating is a national pastime in Finland, with a boat to every seven or eight people.	Sailing is a national pastime in Finland, with one boat for seven or eight people.
French: Cela ne me semblait pas logique ; ce n'était certainement pas juste. = English: That didn't seem to make sense to me; it certainly wasn't fair.	Also, make sure to pronounce r and rr differently: caro means dear, whereas carro means chariot.	Please also make sure to pronounce the « r » and « rr » sounds distinctly, as « caro » means « cher », while « carro » means « chariot ».
French: Ces événements ont eu lieu dans la période généralement considérée comme le Haut Moyen Âge – période de l'histoire en Europe courant du XIe au XIIIe siècle (1000-1300). = English: The age where the events took place is commonly referred as the High Middle Ages the period of European history in the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries (AD 1000–1300).	Caretaker Prime Minister Julia Gillard claimed during the campaign of the 2010 federal election that she believed Australia should become a republic at the end of Queen Elizabeth II's reign.	The interim Prime Minister Julia Gillard said during the 2010 federal election campaign that she thought Australia should become a republic at the end of the reign of Queen Elizabeth II.
French: En 1994, ce conflit a débouché sur la création de la république autoproclamée de Transnistrie en Moldavie orientale, dotée de son propre gouvernement et de sa propre monnaie, mais reconnue par aucun pays membre des Nations Unies. = English: In 1994, this conflict led to the creation of the self-proclaimed Transnistria Republic in eastern Moldova, which has its own government and currency but is not recognised by any UN member country.	Cochamó Valley - Chile's premier climbing destination, known as the Yosemite of South America, with a variety of granite big walls and crags.	Cochamó Valley – The destination of excellence for climbing in Chile, known as the Yosemite of South America, with many large granite walls and cliffs of different types.
French: Une recherche sur internet de « Cours en environnement hostile » fournira probablement l'adresse d'une entreprise locale. = English: A search of the Internet for 'Hostile environment course' will probably provide the address of a local company.	Many German baked goods also feature almonds, hazelnuts, and other tree nuts. Popular cakes often pair particularly well with a cup of strong coffee.	Many German baked goods also contain almonds, hazelnuts and other nuts. Popular cakes often go particularly well with a strong cup of coffee.
French: Mais ces plans sont devenus obsolètes presque du jour au lendemain, quand plus de 800 000 soldats de l’Armée rouge de l’Union soviétique sont arrivés et ont créé le front biélorusse et ukrainien après avoir envahi les régions est de la Pologne, violant ainsi le Traité de Paix de Riga, le pacte de non-agression soviéto-polonais, ainsi que d’autres traités internationaux, qu’ils soient bilatéraux ou multilatéraux. = English: However, these plans were rendered obsolete nearly overnight, when over 800,000 soldiers from the Soviet's Union Red Army entered and created the Belarussian and Ukrainian fronts after invading the eastern regions of Poland in violation of the Riga Peace Treaty, the Soviet-Polish Non-Aggression Pact, and other international treaties, both bilateral and multilateral.	Bush spokesman Gordon Johndroe called North Korea's pledge "a major step towards the goal of achieving the verifiable denuclearization of the Korean peninsula."	Bush's spokesman, Gordon Johndroe, called North Korea's promise "a major step toward the goal of verifiable denuclearization of the Korean peninsula".
French: Parmi les exemples figurent le contrôle, la planification et la programmation, la capacité à répondre aux diagnostics et aux questions des clients, ainsi que la reconnaissance de l'écriture, de la voix et du visage. = English: Examples include control, planning and scheduling, the ability to answer customer diagnoses and questions, as well as handwriting recognition, voice and face.	This behavior oftentimes results in rifts between the leaders and the rest of the team.	This behavior often leads to disagreements between managers and the rest of the team.
French: Parmi les autres sujets à l’ordre du jour à Bali figurent la sauvegarde des dernières forêts du monde et le partage des technologies pour aider les pays en développement à poursuivre leur croissance de manière moins polluante. = English: Other subjects on the agenda in Bali include saving the world's remaining forests, and sharing technologies to help developing nations grow in less-polluting ways.	Summits include breath-taking views from peaks. Climbers from all parts of the world are continually establishing new routes amongst its endless potential of walls.	From the summits, the views of the mountains are breathtaking. Mountaineers from all over the world are constantly discovering new paths on the slopes, where possibilities are endless.
French: Les deux tours s'élèvent à une hauteur de 83 mètres ; il est long de 378 mètres et possède deux voies de 3,50 m de large. = English: The two towers rise to a height of 83 meters, it's 378 meters long and it has two lanes of 3.50 m wide.	But there are a lot of things about birds that still look like a dinosaur.	But there are many things about birds that still look like a dinosaur.
French: Les efforts visant à trouver le lieu de l’accident sont restreints par des intempéries et le terrain accidenté. = English: Efforts to search for the crash site are being met by bad weather and harsh terrain.	The crust is about 70 km thick on the near side and 100 km thick on the far side.	The crust is about 70 km thick on the visible face and 100 km thick on the hidden face.
French: Dans de nombreuses autres villes d'Italie et dans le reste du monde, en particulier en Pologne, des installations similaires ont été réalisées et ont été vues par un grand nombre de personnes. = English: In many other cities of Italy and in the rest of the world, particularly in Poland, similar setups were made, which were viewed by a great number of people.	Had the Allies failed, Germany probably would have been able to conquer Britain as it had the rest of Europe.	If the Allies had failed, Germany would probably have been able to conquer Britain as it did for the rest of Europe.
French: Pour des informations sur les tournois et les endroits où acheter des billets pour les matchs de polo, consultez l’Asociacion Argentina de Polo. = English: For news on tournaments and where to buy tickets for polo matches, check Asociacion Argentina de Polo.	Also between each dynasty was an unstable age of divided provinces. The best-known of these periods was the Three Kingdoms epoch taking place for 60 years between the Han and the Jin Dynasty.	Between each dynasty, there was also an unstable period of divided provinces. The most famous of these periods was the Three Kingdoms era, which lasted 60 years between the Han dynasty and the Jin dynasty.
French: En outre, il existe de nombreux petits chats (y compris les chats de compagnie en liberté) qui mangent les petites proies, bien plus nombreuses, comme les insectes, les rongeurs, les lézards et les oiseaux. = English: Finally, there are many small cats (including loose pet cats) that eat the far more numerous small prey like insects, rodents, lizards, and birds.	Fluke wrote that the efforts by some to drown out women from speaking out about women’s health were unsuccessful.	Fluke wrote that the efforts of some to prevent women from talking about their health have failed.
French: Plusieurs grands écrans de télévision ont été installés à différents endroits à Rome pour permettre aux gens de regarder la cérémonie. = English: Several large television screens were installed in various places in Rome to let the people watch the ceremony.	Hershey and Chase used phages, or viruses, to implant their own DNA into a bacterium.	Hershey and Chase used phages, or viruses, to implant their own DNA into a bacterium.
French: Un téléphone satellite ne remplace généralement pas un téléphone portable, car il faut être à l'extérieur et avoir une vue dégagée sur le satellite pour passer un appel. = English: A satellite phone is not generally a replacement for a mobile phone, as you have to be outdoors with clear line of sight to the satellite to make a phone call.	Bishkek was described as sinking into a state of "anarchy" by one observer, as gangs of people roamed the streets and plundered stores of consumer goods.	An observer described Bishkek as sinking into a state of "anarchy", while the population moved in gangs through the streets and looted shops of consumer goods.
French: De même, en ayant un visa Schengen, vous n'avez pas besoin de demander séparément un visa pour chacun des pays membres de l'espace, ce qui permet d'économiser du temps, de l'argent et des formalités administratives. = English: Similarly, by having a Schengen visa, you do not need to apply for visas to each of the Schengen member countries separately, hence saving time, money and paperwork.	However, this does not come cheap: as rough rules of thumb, you can expect to pay up to four times the normal economy fare for business, and eleven times for first class!	However, this is not cheap: in general, you can expect to pay up to four times the normal economy fare for business class, and eleven times for first class!
French: On signale qu'environ 9 400 habitations de la région sont privées d'eau, et qu'environ 100 sont privées d'électricité. = English: It is reported that some 9400 homes in the region are without water and approximately 100 without electricity.	It was the final match for the All Blacks, who had already won the trophy two weeks ago.	It was the last match of the All Blacks, who had already won the trophy two weeks ago.
French: Cette stratégie s'est avérée efficace, coupant les approvisionnements militaires et civils vitaux, bien que ce blocus ait violé le droit international généralement accepté et codifié par plusieurs accords internationaux des deux derniers siècles. = English: The strategy proved effective, cutting off vital military and civilian supplies, although this blockade violated generally accepted international law codified by several international agreements of the past two centuries.	A study published on Thursday in the journal Science reported on formation of a new bird species on the Ecuadorean Galápagos Islands.	A study published Thursday in the journal Science reported the genesis of a new species of bird in the Galapagos Islands of Ecuador.
French: En 1989, il a participé à la création des Simpsons avec Brooks et Groening et a été responsable de l'embauche de la première équipe de scénaristes de la série. = English: In 1989 he helped create The Simpsons with Brooks and Groening, and was responsible for hiring the show's first writing team.	Another difference was that while the poor people and the woman ate their food while sitting in chairs, the rich men liked to have banquets together where they would lounge on their sides while they ate their meals.	Another difference: while the poor and the woman ate their food sitting on chairs, the rich men liked to organize banquets together where they rested on their side while they ate.
French: Les scientifiques ont pu conclure que la matière noire affecte les autres matières noires de la même manière que la matière normale. = English: The scientists were able to conclude that the dark matter affect other dark matter in the same way regular matter does.	For news on tournaments and where to buy tickets for polo matches, check Asociacion Argentina de Polo.	For information about tournaments and places to buy tickets for polo matches, check out the Asociacion Argentina de Polo.
French: Les satellites, qui pesaient tous les deux plus de 450 kg et se déplaçaient à environ 28000 km/h, sont entrés en collision à 790 km au-dessus de la Terre. = English: The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	The result of plotting analysis will be posted to a public website.	The result of the analysis of the track will be published on a public Web site.
French: La plupart des districts sont desservis par de petits caboteurs japonais, qui sont confortables et robustes. = English: Most districts are served by small Japanese Coaster Buses, which are comfortable and sturdy.	The only way to get it through faster was to send it as checked luggage. Airline regulations will not allow them to send luggage without a passenger, which is where you come in.	The only way to get it there faster was to send it as checked luggage. Airline regulations won't allow them to send luggage without a passenger, and that's where you come in.
French: Les tireurs de l’essai supplémentaire de lutte contre les parasites devaient être étroitement surveillés par des rangers, car l’essai était contrôlé et son efficacité évaluée. = English: Shooters in the supplementary pest control trial were to be closely supervised by rangers, as the trial was monitored and its effectiveness evaluated.	One can only wonder what the keyboard will become when something newer comes along.	One can only wonder what the keyboard will become when the next novelty arrives.
French: C'est encore fabriqué aujourd'hui, mais ce qui importe est que son format d'image est hérité du format du capteur photographique des caméras numériques. = English: It is still produced today, but more importantly its aspect ratio has been inherited by digital camera image sensor formats.	This gives them a wider range of small places to hide from predators.	It gives them more small places to hide from predators.
French: Les courants d'arrachement sont les courants qui reviennent des vagues qui se brisent sur la plage, souvent sur un écueil ou équivalent. = English: Rip currents are the returning flow from waves breaking off the beach, often at a reef or similar.	Why do transportation systems engender such complaints, why do they fail on a daily basis? Are transportation engineers just incompetent? Or is something more fundamental going on?	Why do transport systems generate such complaints, why do they break down daily? Are transport engineers simply incompetent? Or is there something more fundamental going on?
French: Au même moment, la marine allemande, utilisant principalement des U-Boots, tentait d'arrêter ce trafic. = English: At the same time, the German navy, using mainly U-boats, was trying to stop this traffic.	Ocelots like to eat small animals. They will catch monkeys, snakes, rodents and birds if they can. Almost all of the animals that the ocelot hunts are far smaller than it is.	Ocelots are fond of small animals. They catch monkeys, snakes, rodents and birds if they can. Almost all the animals that the ocelot hunts are much smaller than it is.
French: Les premiers cas de cette maladie saisonnière ont été déclarés fin juillet. = English: The first cases of the disease this season were reported in late July.	Along the same line, men are required to wear trousers covering the knees.	Likewise, men must wear trousers that cover the knees.
French: Le ministère japonais de l'économie, du commerce et de l'industrie (METI) a déclaré qu'il avait eu connaissance de 27 accidents liés à ces appareils. = English: Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) said that it had been aware of 27 accidents related to the devices.	This will allow it to be backwards compatible with 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g, provided that the base station has dual radios.	This will allow for backwards compatibility with 802.11a, b and g iterations, provided that the station has two radios.
French: Environ 60 cas de surchauffe d’iPods défectueux ont été signalés, provoquant au total six incendies et laissant quatre personnes avec des brûlures mineures. = English: Around 60 cases of malfunctioning iPods overheating have been reported, causing a total of six fires and leaving four people with minor burns.	For example, the most common still image photography format in the world is 35mm, which was the dominant film size at the close of the analog film era.	For example, the most common format for photography in the world is 35 mm; it was the most common film format at the end of the analog film era.
French: Les critères qui déterminent une sous-culture comme distincte peuvent être linguistiques, esthétiques, religieux, politiques, sexuels, géographiques ou une combinaison de facteurs. = English: The qualities that determine a subculture as distinct may be linguistic, aesthetic, religious, political, sexual, geographical, or a combination of factors.	Shooters in the supplementary pest control trial were to be closely supervised by rangers, as the trial was monitored and its effectiveness evaluated.	The additional shooters of the parasite control trial had to be closely monitored by rangers, as the trial was controlled and its effectiveness evaluated.
French: Fin 2015, TogiNet a créé AstroNet Radio en tant que station subsidiaire. = English: In late 2015, TogiNet established AstroNet Radio as a subsidiary station.	However, that is not true. Although there is something written on the back of the document, it is not a treasure map.	However, this is not true. Although there is a registration on the back of the document, it is not a treasure map.
French: Lorsqu'ils sont entièrement élevés par des espèces non humaines, les enfants sauvages affichent des comportements (dans les limites de leurs dispositions physiques) presque identiques à ceux des animaux qui les ont élevés, tels que la peur ou l'indifférence envers les humains. = English: When completely brought up by non-human animals, the feral child exhibits behaviors (within physical limits) almost entirely like those of the particular care-animal, such as its fear of or indifference to humans.	European influence and colonialism began in the 15th century, as Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama found the Cape Route from Europe to India.	European influence and colonialism began in the 15th century, when the Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama discovered the Cape route that connects Europe to India.
French: La surface totale du parc est de 19 500 km², celle-ci est divisée en 14 écozones, abritant chacune une faune spécifique. = English: The park covers 19,500 km² and is divided in 14 different ecozones, each supporting different wildlife.	Most of the distinct Baltic Cruises feature an extended stay in St. Petersburg, Russia.	Most Baltic cruises are characterized by a long stay in St. Petersburg, Russia.
French: Le match s'est joué à un point, 21 à 20, mettant fin à la série de 15 victoires des All Blacks. = English: The final score was a one-point victory, 21 to 20, ending the All Blacks' 15 game winning streak.	The Plitvice Lakes national park is heavily forested, mainly with beech, spruce, and fir trees, and features a mixture of Alpine and Mediterranean vegetation.	The Plitvice Lakes National Park is densely wooded, mainly beech, spruce and fir, and has a mixture of alpine and Mediterranean vegetation.
French: Cela peut être fait facilement en utilisant un réveil relativement silencieux, afin de vous faire reprendre conscience sans vous réveiller complètement. = English: This can be easily done by using a relatively quiet alarm clock to bring you to consciousness without fully waking you.	For a comparison of population that surprises many: There are more African Americans living in the US than there are Canadian citizens.	For a comparison that will surprise more than one person: There are more African-Americans living in the United States than there are Canadian citizens.
French: Dans un carrosse, ils sont rentrés à Paris entourés d’une foule de gens qui hurlent et crient des menaces contre le roi et la reine. = English: In a carriage, they traveled back to Paris surrounded by a mob of people screaming and shouting threats against the King and Queen.	Atoms are so incredibly tiny that trillions of them could fit into the period at the end of this sentence.	Atoms are so incredibly small that billions of them could fit into the period at the end of this sentence.
French: Les forêts ne sont cependant pas composées uniquement de marais de mangroves : elles recèlent également certains des derniers vestiges des jungles majestueuses qui recouvraient autrefois la plaine du Gange. = English: The forests aren't just mangrove swamps though — they include some of the last remaining stands of the mighty jungles which once covered the Gangetic plain.	Both cyanuric acid and melamine were found in urine samples from pets that died after consuming contaminated pet food.	Cyanuric acid and melamine were found in the urine samples taken from the domestic animals which died after eating contaminated animal feed.
French: Notre système de placement en famille d'accueil est supposé fournir des foyers sûrs, des soignants aimants, une éducation stable et des soins de santé fiables. = English: Our foster care system is supposed to provide safe homes, loving caregivers, stable education, and reliable health care.	The Portuguese destroyed it and rebuilt it under the name Casa Branca, only to abandon it after an earthquake in 1755.	The Portuguese, who had destroyed it and then rebuilt it and named it Casa Branca, finally abandoned it in 1755 after a earthquake.
French: Ce n'est cependant pas la seule, l'expérimentation, et une expérience est un test qui sert à éliminer une ou plusieurs des hypothèses possibles, poser des questions et faire des observations, mais qui oriente également la recherche scientifique. = English: It isn’t alone though, experimentation, and an experiment is a test that is used to eliminate one or more of the possible hypotheses, asking questions, and making observations also guide scientific research.	Previously, Ring's CEO, Jamie Siminoff, remarked the company started when his doorbell wasn't audible from his shop in his garage.	Previously, Ring’s CEO, Jamie Siminoff, noted that he launched the company when his doorbell wasn’t audible from his store in his garage.
French: Cela semble raisonnable, car la Terre n'a pas l'impression de bouger, n'est-ce pas ? = English: This seems sensible, because the Earth doesn't feel as if it's moving, does it?	Anyone who's going to drive at high latitudes or over mountain passes should consider the possibility of snow, ice, or freezing temperatures.	Anyone travelling by car to high latitudes or crossing mountain passes should consider the possibility of snow, ice or freezing temperatures.
French: En 1895, après sa défaite lors de la première guerre sino-japonaise (1894–1895), le gouvernement Qing signe le traité de Shimonoseki, par lequel il cède la souveraineté de Taïwan au Japon, qui dirige alors l'île jusqu'en 1945. = English: In 1895, after defeat in the First Sino-Japanese War (1894-1895), the Qing government signs the Treaty of Shimonoseki, by which it cedes sovereignty over Taiwan to Japan, which rules the island until 1945.	Check the label for specific first aid instructions for that specific poison.	Check the label for specific first aid instructions for this poison.
French: Bientôt, des officiers équipés de matériel antiémeute pénétrèrent dans la cour et coincèrent les détenus avec des gaz lacrymogènes. = English: Soon, officers equipped with riot gear entered the yard and cornered the inmates with tear gas.	There are many French wines to be had, but the New Zealand and Australian wines might travel better.	There are many French wines to taste, but New Zealand and Australian wines may travel better.
French: Le même mois, un autre avion de ligne a fait une sortie de piste à Mashhad et a heurté un mur, tuant ainsi dix-sept personnes. = English: The same month saw another airliner overrun a runway at Mashhad and strike a wall, killing seventeen.	City-states are the precursors of nations. A civilizational culture implies the passing on of knowledge across several generations, a lingering cultural footprint and fair dissemination.	The city-states were the precursors of nations. A civilizational culture involves the transmission of knowledge over several generations, a lasting cultural imprint and an equitable distribution.
French: Participer pratiquement à une excursion est également un excellent moyen de réfléchir à un voyage et de partager ses expériences avec des générations futures. = English: Sharing a field trip virtually is also a great way to reflect a on a trip and share experiences with future classes.	Pests can spoil food, cause irritation, or in a worse case cause allergic reactions, spread venom, or transmit infections.	Parasites can contaminate food, cause irritation, or, in the most serious cases, cause allergic reactions, spread venom or transmit infections.
French: Les enfants sont placés dans des familles d’accueil pour des raisons très diverses qui vont de la négligence à la maltraitance, en passant par l’extorsion. = English: Children are placed in Foster Care for a wide variety of reasons that range from neglect, to abuse, and even to extortion.	Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	Hu urged developing countries to "avoid the old method of first polluting and then cleaning".
French: En dessous se trouvent des félins de taille plus moyenne qui mangent des proies de taille également moyenne, allant des lapins aux antilopes et autres chevreuils. = English: Under them are more medium sized cats that eat medium sized prey ranging from rabbits to antelopes and deer.	Anyone planning a visit to a country that could be considered a war zone should get professional training.	Anyone who is considering going to a country that could be considered a war zone should receive professional training.
French: « Leur comportement thermique n’est pas aussi stable que celui des grandes grottes de la planète qui maintiennent une température constante, mais ils se ressemblent en ce qu’ils sont des trous profonds dans la terre », selon Glen Cushing, membre de l’équipage de l'USGS (Centre américain d’études géologiques) et du personnel de l’Université d’Arizona du Nord situé à Flagstaff, en Arizona. = English: Their thermal behavior is not as steady as large caves on Earth that often maintain a fairly constant temperature, but it is consistent with these being deep holes in the ground," said Glen Cushing of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Astrogeology Team and of Northern Arizona University located in Flagstaff, Arizona.	It is still produced today, but more importantly its aspect ratio has been inherited by digital camera image sensor formats.	It is still made today, but what matters is that its image format is inherited from the format of the digital camera sensor.
French: Perry a déclaré qu'il « retournerait au Texas pour évaluer les résultats du caucus de ce soir, et déterminer s'il y a une voie à suivre pour moi dans cette course », mais il a affirmé plus tard qu'il resterait dans la course et participerait aux primaires du 21 janvier en Caroline du Sud. = English: Perry stated that he would "return to Texas to assess the results of tonight's caucus, determine whether there is a path forward for myself in this race", but later said that he would remain in the race and compete in the January 21 South Carolina primary.	Two songs from the movie, Audition (The Fools Who Dream) and City of Stars, received nominations for best original song. Lionsgate studio received 26 nominations — more than any other studio.	Two songs from the film, Audition (The Fools Who Dream) and City of Stars, were nominated for Best Original Song. The Lionsgate studio received 26 nominations — more than any other studio.
French: Environ 60 cas de surchauffe d’iPods défectueux ont été signalés, provoquant au total six incendies et laissant quatre personnes avec des brûlures mineures. = English: Around 60 cases of malfunctioning iPods overheating have been reported, causing a total of six fires and leaving four people with minor burns.	Later reports then stated the plane received a bomb threat and was diverted back to Afghanistan, landing in Kandahar.	Further reports later revealed that the device had been the subject of a bomb threat and was diverted to Afghanistan to land in Kandahar.
French: En outre, il existe de nombreux petits chats (y compris les chats de compagnie en liberté) qui mangent les petites proies, bien plus nombreuses, comme les insectes, les rongeurs, les lézards et les oiseaux. = English: Finally, there are many small cats (including loose pet cats) that eat the far more numerous small prey like insects, rodents, lizards, and birds.	He was also engaged in engraving banknotes for many countries, recent examples of his work including the Prime Ministerial portraits on the front of the new Canadian $5 and $100 bills.	He also engraved banknotes for many countries. Among recent examples of his work are the portraits of the Prime Minister on the front of the new Canadian 5 and 100 dollar bills.
French: La pratique du ski alpin en tant que sport remonte au moins au XVIIe siècle ; le premier club de ski de loisirs a été fondé en 1861 en Australie par des Norvégiens. = English: Downhill skiing as a sport goes back to at least the 17th century, and in 1861 the first recreational ski club was opened by Norwegians in Australia.	The medical charity Mangola, Medecines Sans Frontieres and the World Health Organisation say it is the worst outbreak recorded in the country.	According to the Mangola NGO, Médecins Sans Frontières and the World Health Organization, this is the worst epidemic recorded in the country.
French: Cependant, ceux qui parlent un peu espagnol pourraient conclure hâtivement que le portugais en est suffisamment proche pour qu’il ne soit pas nécessaire de l’étudier séparément. = English: However, people who know a little Spanish may hastily conclude that Portuguese is close enough that it need not be studied separately.	Rip currents are the returning flow from waves breaking off the beach, often at a reef or similar.	Rip currents are the currents that return from waves that break on the beach, often on a reef or equivalent.
French: Les autres possibilités fondées sur le biorythme incluent le fait de boire beaucoup de liquides avant de s'endormir (notamment de l'eau ou du thé, réputés pour être diurétiques), ce qui vous contraint à vous réveiller pour uriner. = English: Other biorhythm-based options involve drinking lots of fluid (particularly water or tea, a known diuretic) prior to sleep, forcing one to get up to urinate.	Just like the moon exerts a pull on the earth, causing tides, so does the Milky Way exert a force on the Sagittarius galaxy.	Just as the moon pulls on the earth, causing tides, the Milky Way pulls on the Sagitarius galaxy.
French: Tout le monde peut atteindre l'illumination. La seule chose qui fait obstacle à cet objectif est notre propre tension et notre négativité. = English: Everyone can achieve enlightenment. The only thing standing in the way of this goal is our own tension and negativity.	The bill requires violent video games sold in the state of California to be labeled with a decal reading "18" and makes their sale to a minor punishable by a fine of $1000 per offense.	The bill requires that violent video games sold in the State of California be labeled with an 18 sticker and makes their sale to a minor a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $1,000 per offense.
French: Si les Alliés avaient échoué, l'Allemagne aurait probablement pu conquérir la Grande-Bretagne comme elle l'a fait pour le reste de l'Europe. = English: Had the Allies failed, Germany probably would have been able to conquer Britain as it had the rest of Europe.	Women: It is recommended that any women travellers say that they are married, regardless of actual marital status.	To women: It is recommended that any woman traveling should say that she is married, whatever her civil status.
French: Deux ans après la fin de la guerre, les anciens alliés sont devenus des ennemis et la guerre froide a commencé. = English: With two years of the end of the war, the former allies were now enemies and the Cold War began.	Before The Simpsons Simon had worked on several shows in various positions.	Before the Simpsons, Simon had worked on several series, occupying various posts.
French: Tout au long des années 1960, Brzezinski a travaillé pour John F. Kennedy en tant que conseiller, puis pour l'administration de Lyndon B. Johnson. = English: Throughout 1960s, Brzezinski worked for John F. Kennedy as his advisor and then the Lyndon B. Johnson administration.	Subsistence agriculture is a simple, often organic, system using saved seed native to the ecoregion combined with crop rotation or other relatively simple techniques to maximize yield.	Subsistence agriculture is a simple system, often biological, using seeds saved from the region, combined with crop rotation or other relatively simple techniques to maximize yield.
French: L'hôpital a respecté le protocole pour la prévention des infections, notamment l'isolement du patient afin d'éviter une possible infection d'autres patients. = English: The hospital has followed protocol for infection control, including separating the patient from others to prevent possible infection of others.	One of the most noteworthy recent examples of this was the North Atlantic campaign of WWII. The Americans were trying to move men and materials across the Atlantic Ocean to help Britain.	One of the most recent examples of this situation was the North Atlantic campaign during World War II. The Americans were trying to get soldiers and equipment across the Atlantic Ocean to help Britain.
French: Montevideo étant située au sud de l’Équateur, l’hiver dans l’hémisphère nord correspond à l’été là-bas et vice-versa. = English: Since Montevideo is south of the Equator, it is summer there when it's winter in the Northern Hemisphere and vice versa.	Workers must often get their superiors' approval for any decisions they make, and are expected to obey their superiors' instructions without question.	Workers are often required to obtain permission from their superiors for any decision they make and are expected to obey the instructions of their superiors without question.
French: Le mécontentement de la communauté a entraîné les efforts actuels visant à concevoir une politique relative au contenu à caractère sexuel du site qui héberge des millions de médias libres d’accès. = English: The community irritation led to current efforts to draft a policy regarding sexual content for the site which hosts millions of openly-licensed media.	ASUS Eee PC, earlier launched world-wide for cost-saving and functionality factors, became a hot topic in 2007 Taipei IT Month.	The ASUS Eee PC, previously launched worldwide for cost and feature reasons, became a hot topic during the 2007 Taipei IT Month.
French: L'agriculture de subsistance est une agriculture pratiquée pour produire suffisamment de nourriture pour répondre uniquement aux besoins de l'agriculteur et de sa famille. = English: Subsistence agriculture is agriculture carried out for the production of enough food to meet just the needs of the agriculturalist and his/her family.	A civilization is a singular culture shared by a significant large group of people who live and work co-operatively, a society.	A civilization is a singular culture shared by a large group of people who live and work together, a society.
French: En principe, le bouddhisme tibétain est très simple. Il se compose du Kundalini Yoga, de la méditation et de la voie de l'amour universel. = English: In principle the Tibetan Buddhism is very simple. It consists of Kundalini Yoga, meditation and the path of all-embracing love.	Robin Uthappa made the innings highest score, 70 runs in just 41 balls by hitting 11 fours and 2 sixes.	Robin Uthappa scored the highest score of the innings, 70 runs in only 41 balls by hitting 11 times for four runs and 2 times for six runs.
French: Les troupes de lions agissent comme des meutes de loups ou de chiens, des animaux étonnamment semblables aux lions (mais pas aux autres grands félins) dans leur comportement, et aussi très mortels pour leurs proies. = English: Lion prides act much like packs of wolves or dogs, animals surprisingly similar to lions (but not other big cats) in behavior, and also very deadly to their prey.	In the archipelagos and lakes you do not necessarily need a yacht.	You don't necessarily need a yacht in the archipelagos and on the lakes.
French: Après son adoption par le Congrès le 4 juillet, un projet manuscrit signé par le président du Congrès John Hancock et le secrétaire Charles Thomson a ensuite été envoyé à quelques rues de là, à l'imprimerie de John Dunlap. = English: After its adoption by Congress on July 4, a handwritten draft signed by the President of Congress John Hancock and the Secretary Charles Thomson was then sent a few blocks away to the printing shop of John Dunlap.	As the areas are sparsely populated, and light pollution therefore often not a problem, you will also be able to enjoy the stars.	As the regions are sparsely populated, and therefore often not a problem, you can also enjoy the stars.
French: De plus, le fait de bloguer « oblige les étudiants à mieux connaître le monde qui les entoure ». Le besoin de susciter l'intérêt du public incite les étudiants à être intelligents et intéressants (Toto, 2004). = English: Also blogging "forces students to become more savvy about the world around them." The need to feed the interest of the audience inspires students to be clever and interesting (Toto, 2004).	Television reports show white smoke coming from the plant.	Television reports show white smoke coming from the factory.
French: Mais, situé dans les « tropiques élevées » à seulement quelques degrés au nord de l'équateur, il faudra vous adapter à la chaleur (toujours) et à un fort rayonnement du soleil (quand le ciel est dégagé, ce qui est plus rare). = English: But being placed in the "high tropics" just a few degrees north of equator you will need to deal with both heat (always) and strong sun (when the sky is clear, more rarely).	Historians have criticized past FBI policies for focusing resources on cases which are easy to solve, especially stolen car cases, with the intent of boosting the agency's success rate.	Historians have criticized past FBI policies for having concentrated resources on easy-to-solve cases, especially car thefts, with the intention of increasing the agency's success rate.
French: Néanmoins, suivez les conseils des autorités, obéissez à tous les panneaux et prêtez une attention particulière aux avertissements de sécurité. = English: Still, take advice from authorities, obey all signs, and pay close attention to safety warnings.	The two towers rise to a height of 83 meters, it's 378 meters long and it has two lanes of 3.50 m wide.	The two towers rise to a height of 83 metres; it is 378 metres long and has two 3.50 m wide lanes.
French: Deux chansons du film, Audition (The Fools Who Dream) et City of Stars, ont été nominées pour la meilleure chanson originale. Le studio Lionsgate a reçu 26 nominations — plus que tout autre studio. = English: Two songs from the movie, Audition (The Fools Who Dream) and City of Stars, received nominations for best original song. Lionsgate studio received 26 nominations — more than any other studio.	The vehicle itself was taken away from the scene of the accident at approximately 1200 GMT on the same day.	The vehicle itself was removed from the accident site at 12 am GMT the same day.
French: Certains festivals disposent d'aires de camping spéciales pour les familles avec de jeunes enfants. = English: Some festivals have special camping areas for families with young children.	Resting on the top of one of the mountains north of Mecca, the cave is completely isolated from the rest of the world.	Located at the top of one of the mountains north of Mecca, the cave is totally isolated from the rest of the world.
French: L'ONU espère également finaliser un fonds pour aider les pays touchés par le réchauffement climatique à faire face aux impacts. = English: The U.N. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts.	Plants make their food from the sun by photosynthesis. They also provide shade.	Plants produce their food using the sun through photosynthesis. They also provide shade.
French: La science montre désormais que cette économie massivement basée sur le carbone a délogé la biosphère de son état de stabilité qui a soutenu l'évolution humaine pendant deux millions d'années. = English: Science now indicates that this massive carbon economy has dislodged the biosphere from one of its stable states that has supported human evolution for the past two million years.	Fortunately, drivers tend to behave within a reasonably consistent range; thus, traffic streams tend to have some reasonable consistency and can be roughly represented mathematically.	Fortunately, drivers tend to act within a reasonably consistent range; thus, traffic flows tend to have a reasonable consistency and can be mathematically represented in an approximate manner.
French: Le chocolat chaud est conforme aux normes belges. Les jus de fruits sont chers mais excellents. = English: The hot chocolate is up to Belgian standards. Fruit juices are pricey but excellent.	İzmir is the third largest city in Turkey with a population of around 3.7 million, the second biggest port after Istanbul, and a very good transport hub.	With a population of 3.7 million, Izmir is the third largest city in Turkey, the second port after Istanbul, and an excellent hub.
French: Ses longues mâchoires étaient dotées de plus de 70 dents acérées comme des lames de rasoir, ainsi que d'une série supplémentaire de dents dans le palais, de sorte que tout ce qui croisait son chemin ne pouvait pas s'échapper. = English: Its long jaws were studded with more than 70 razor-sharp teeth, along with an extra set in the roof of its mouth, meaning that there was no escape for anything that crossed its path.	Scientists say the explosion caused by the collision was massive.	Scientists say the collision caused a massive explosion.
French: Pendant les années 1980, il a travaillé sur des spectacles tels que Taxi, Cheers et The Tracy Ullman Show. = English: During the 1980s he worked on shows such as Taxi, Cheers, and The Tracy Ullman Show.	The city is also the base to climb the Nyiragongo volcano along with some of the cheapest Mountain Gorilla tracking in Africa.	Goma is also the starting point for the ascent of the Nyiragongo volcano as well as for gorilla tracking hikes among the cheapest in Africa.
French: La plupart des districts sont desservis par de petits caboteurs japonais, qui sont confortables et robustes. = English: Most districts are served by small Japanese Coaster Buses, which are comfortable and sturdy.	Today many Sámi work in modern trades. Tourism is an important income in Sápmi, the Sámi area.	Nowadays, many Sámi people work in modern professions. Tourism is an important source of income in Lapland, the Sámi region.
French: Les chèvres domestiques étaient généralement gardées dans les troupeaux qui erraient sur les collines ou d'autres espaces de pâturage, souvent soignées par des chevriers qui étaient la plupart du temps des enfants ou des adolescents, semblables au terme plus connu de bergers. Ces méthodes pastorales ont toujours cours aujourd'hui. = English: Domestic goats were generally kept in herds that wandered on hills or other grazing areas, often tended by goatherds who were frequently children or adolescents, similar to the more widely known shepherd. These methods of herding are still used today.	It also arguably makes reading easier, though writing is somewhat complicated by the need to find out whether a verb or adjective is used in a substantivized form.	One can also say that it makes reading easier, although the writing is somewhat complicated by the need to know whether a verb or adjective is used in a substantivized form.
French: Si vous vous retrouvez à réinitialiser l’horloge pendant votre sommeil, il peut être placé de l’autre côté de la pièce, vous forçant à sortir du lit pour l’éteindre. = English: If you find yourself resetting the clock in your sleep, it can be placed on the other side of the room, forcing you to get out of bed to turn it off.	Greenland was settled sparsely. In the Norse sagas they say that Erik the Red was exiled from Iceland for murder, and when travelling further west, found Greenland and named it Greenland.	Greenland was sparsely populated. In the Scandinavian sagas, it is said that Erik the Red was exiled from Iceland for murder and found Greenland — and named it — by traveling west.
French: D’autres auraient été élevés par des animaux ; certains auraient vécu seuls dans la nature. = English: Others are alleged to have been brought up by animals; some are said to have lived in the wild on their own.	Most of the life of the Hebrew family happened in the open air.	The main part of the Jewish family’s life was spent outdoors.
French: Des chercheurs de l'université de Princeton aux États-Unis et de l'université d'Uppsala en Suède ont indiqué que la nouvelle espèce avait évolué en seulement deux générations, bien que ce processus ait été estimé beaucoup plus long, suite à la reproduction entre un pinson de Darwin endémique, Geospiza fortis, et le pinson immigrant à bec conique, Geospiza conirostris. = English: Researchers from Princeton University in the United States and Uppsala University in Sweden reported the new species evolved in just two generations, though this process had been believed to take much longer, due to breeding between an endemic Darwin finch, Geospiza fortes, and the immigrant cactus finch, Geospiza conirostris.	Several million vials of encephalitis vaccine have also been promised by the government, which will help prepare health agencies for next year.	Several million doses of vaccine against encephalitis have also been promised by the government, which will help prepare health agencies for next year.
French: Goma est une ville touristique située à l'extrême est de la République Démocratique du Congo, près du Rwanda. = English: Goma is a tourist city of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the extreme east near Rwanda.	Feel free to pencil in your own marks, but remember the printed bowing marks are there for a musical reason, so they should usually be respected.	Please do not hesitate to write your own marks with a pencil, but do not forget that printed bow marks are made for a musical reason, and that you should therefore generally respect them.
French: Son coéquipier Fernando Alonso a dominé pendant toute la course, mais son arrêt au stand a mis fin à cette domination, sans doute en raison d'une roue avant droite mal fixée. = English: His teammate Fernando Alonso was in the lead for most of the race, but ended it right after his pit-stop, probably because a badly tucked right front wheel.	A moderate earthquake shook western Montana at 10:08 p.m. on Monday.	A moderate earthquake shook western Montana Monday at 8:28 p.m.
French: Autre différence : alors que les pauvres et la femme mangeaient leur nourriture en étant assis sur des chaises, les hommes riches aimaient organiser des banquets ensemble où ils se reposaient sur le côté pendant qu’ils prenaient leur repas. = English: Another difference was that while the poor people and the woman ate their food while sitting in chairs, the rich men liked to have banquets together where they would lounge on their sides while they ate their meals.	However, people who know a little Spanish may hastily conclude that Portuguese is close enough that it need not be studied separately.	However, those who speak a little Spanish might conclude hastily that Portuguese is sufficiently close to it that it is not necessary to study it separately.
French: On sait depuis longtemps que différents types de dommages, lésions, tumeurs et traumatismes cérébraux affectent le comportement et provoquent des changements dans certaines fonctions mentales. = English: It has been known for a long time that different types of brain damage, traumas, lesions, and tumours affect behaviour and cause changes in some mental functions.	Fellow wrestlers also paid tribute to Luna.	The other wrestlers also paid tribute to Luna.
French: Hu a encouragé les pays en voie de développement « à éviter l'ancienne méthode qui consistait à polluer d'abord et à nettoyer ensuite ». = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	Although pyramid-building in stone continued until the end of the Old Kingdom, the pyramids of Giza were never surpassed in their size and the technical excellence of their construction.	Although stone pyramid construction continued into the end of the Old Kingdom, the pyramids of Gizeh were never surpassed in size or technical excellence of construction.
French: Les gens apportaient des sacrifices aux dieux et les prêtres essayaient de répondre aux besoins des dieux par le biais de cérémonies et de festivités. = English: People would bring sacrifices to the gods and the priests would try to attend to the needs of the gods through ceremonies and festivals.	Casablanca is one of the least interesting places to shop in all of Morocco.	Casablanca is one of the least interesting places in all of Morocco for shopping.
French: Lorsque vous appelez une personne qui se trouve à des milliers de kilomètres, vous utilisez un satellite. = English: When you call someone who is thousands of miles away, you are using a satellite.	The United States Strategic Command of the U.S. Department of Defense office is tracking the debris.	The strategic command of the US Department of Defense is tracking the debris.
French: La bombe à fission fonctionne selon le principe suivant : elle transforme l'énergie en assemblant un noyau d'une myriade de protons et neutrons. = English: The fission bomb works on the principle that it takes energy to put together a nucleus with many protons and neutrons.	According to park authorities, stay at least 100 yards/meters away from bears and wolves and 25 yards/meters from all other wild animals!	According to the authorities of the park, you must stay at least 100 metres away from bears and wolves and 25 metres away from all other wild animals!
French: Pourquoi les systèmes de transport engendrent-ils de telles plaintes, pourquoi tombent-ils en panne quotidiennement ? Les ingénieurs des transports sont-ils simplement incompétents ? Ou bien, se passe-t-il quelque chose de plus fondamental ? = English: Why do transportation systems engender such complaints, why do they fail on a daily basis? Are transportation engineers just incompetent? Or is something more fundamental going on?	The secret to their success is the concept of the niche, a special job each cat holds that keeps it from competing with others.	The secret of their success is the concept of niche, a special task assigned to each cat, preventing it from competing with the others.
French: D'octobre à avril, au nord de 1770, les méduses-boîtes arrivent près des plages et des estuaires de rivières. Elles peuvent également parfois être aperçues en dehors de cette période. = English: Box jellyfish occur near beaches and near river estuaries from October to April north of 1770. They can occasionally be found outside these times.	In 1624,Dutch East India Company establishes a base in southwestern Taiwan, initiating a transformation in aboriginal grain production practices and employing Chinese laborers to work on its rice and sugar plantations.	In 1624, the Dutch East India Company established a base in the southwest of Taiwan, introducing a transformation of indigenous practices of cereal production and employing Chinese workers to work in its rice and sugar plantations.
French: Tommy Dreamer a déclaré : « Luna a été la première reine de l'extrême. Mon premier manager. Luna est décédée la nuit de deux lunes. Un moment unique, tout comme elle. Une femme forte. » = English: Tommy Dreamer said "Luna was the first Queen of Extreme. My first manager. Luna passed away on the night of two moons. Pretty unique just like her. Strong woman."	After the results came in, Gingrich lauded Santorum, but had tough words for Romney, on whose behalf negative campaign advertisements were aired in Iowa against Gingrich.	After the results were published, Newt Gingrich congratulated Rick Santorum, but had harsh words for Mitt Romney, on behalf of whom negative advertising campaigns had been broadcast in Iowa against Newt Gingrich.
French: Le persan a une grammaire relativement facile et la plupart du temps régulière. = English: Persian has a relatively easy and mostly regular grammar.	Saint Petersburg cruises include time in town. Cruise passengers are exempted from visa requirements (check the terms).	Cruises to St. Petersburg include time spent in the city. Passengers on cruises are exempt from the visa requirement (see conditions).
French: Il a été volé par des pirates, attaqué au Tibet par un chien enragé, a échappé à un mariage au Népal et a été arrêté en Inde. = English: He was robbed by pirates, attacked in Tibet by a rabid dog, escaped marriage in Nepal and was arrested in India.	Last month Iran saw its worst air disaster in years when an airliner heading to Armenia crashed, killing the 168 on board.	Iran last month experienced its worst air disaster in years when a plane heading to Armenia crashed, killing the 168 people on board.
French: La Chine ancienne avait une façon unique de montrer les différentes époques ; chaque étape de la Chine ou chaque famille qui était au pouvoir était une dynastie distincte. = English: Ancient China had a unique way of showing different time periods; each stage of China or each family that was in power was a distinctive dynasty.	If you visit the Arctic or Antarctic areas in the winter you will experience the polar night, which means that the sun doesn't rise above the horizon.	If you visit the Arctic or Antarctic regions in winter, you can discover the polar night, during which the sun does not rise above the horizon.
French: Le chef suprême Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III fut assassiné lors un rassemblement pacifique qui se tenait en ville, durant la luttee de l’indépendance organisée par le mouvement Mau. = English: During the struggle for independence organised by the Mau movement, a peaceful gathering in the town resulted in the killing of the paramount chief Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III.	This theory says that most dark matter around a galaxy is located around a galaxy in a kind of halo, and is made of lots of small particles.	According to this theory, most of the dark matter around a galaxy is found in a kind of halo, and is made up of a large number of small particles.
French: Les repas romains de l'Antiquité ne pouvaient pas inclure ces aliments d'origine américaine ou asiatique qui ont été introduits en Europe des siècles plus tard. = English: Ancient Roman meals couldn't have included foods that came to Europe from America or from Asia in later centuries.	However, a nationwide road network is not economically viable for just a handful of cars, so new methods of production are developed to reduce the cost of car ownership.	However, a national road network is not economically viable for a handful of cars, so new methods of production are being developed to reduce the cost of owning a car.
French: Ces enfants sont considérés comme « féroces » ou sauvages. Certains enfants sauvages ont été enfermés par des personnes (généralement leurs propres parents) ; dans certains cas, l'abandon de cet enfant était dû au rejet par les parents d'une déficience intellectuelle ou physique grave dont souffrait l'enfant. = English: Such children are called "feral" or wild. Some feral children have been confined by people (usually their own parents); in some cases this child abandonment was due to the parents' rejection of a child's severe intellectual or physical impairment.	This term derives from ancient familiarity with Bed-bugs, which are insects highly adapted to parasitize humans.	This term derives from an old familiarity with bedbugs, which are very well adapted to parasitize humans.
French: 108 assiettes de Chhappan Bhog (dans l'hindouisme, 56 aliments comestibles différents, comme des sucreries, des fruits, des noix, des plats etc. qui sont offerts à la divinité) ont été servis à Baba Shyam. = English: 108 plates of Chhappan Bhog (in Hinduism, 56 different edible items, like, sweets, fruits, nuts, dishes etc. which are offered to deity) were served to Baba Shyam.	Many of the traditions surrounding the holiday have been adopted also by non-believers in Christian countries and non-Christians around the world.	Many traditions related to these festivals have also been adopted by non-believers in Christian countries and by non-believers in the world.
French: Mais, situé dans les « tropiques élevées » à seulement quelques degrés au nord de l'équateur, il faudra vous adapter à la chaleur (toujours) et à un fort rayonnement du soleil (quand le ciel est dégagé, ce qui est plus rare). = English: But being placed in the "high tropics" just a few degrees north of equator you will need to deal with both heat (always) and strong sun (when the sky is clear, more rarely).	Farther south is Niagara Falls and the north is home to the untapped natural beauty of the Muskoka and beyond.	You will find more south the Niagara Falls and north the Muskoka region and its surroundings which have a pristine natural beauty.
French: Même si l'administration d'un cocktail d'anticorps, ZMapp, avait d'abord montré des signes prometteurs sur le terrain, des études formelles ont démontré que sa capacité à limiter les décès ne répondait pas aux attentes. = English: One antibody cocktail, ZMapp, initially showed promise in the field, but formal studies indicated it had less benefit than sought in preventing death.	Gothic style peaked in the period between the 10th - 11th centuries and the 14th century.	Gothic architecture reached its peak between the 10th and 11th centuries and the 14th century.
French: Leur défense bien disciplinée, leur adresse dans le contrôle du ballon et leur formidable travail d’équipe leur ont permis de se distinguer et il est évident que c’était l’équipe à battre. = English: Their disciplined defence, ball handling skills and excellent team work made them stand out and it was clear that this was the team to beat.	One antibody cocktail, ZMapp, initially showed promise in the field, but formal studies indicated it had less benefit than sought in preventing death.	Even though the administration of a cocktail of antibodies, ZMapp, had initially shown promising signs on the field, formal studies have demonstrated that its ability to limit deaths did not meet expectations.
French: M. Siminoff a déclaré que les ventes ont augmenté après son apparition en 2013 dans un épisode de Shark Tank où le panel de la série a refusé de financer la start-up. = English: Siminoff said sales boosted after his 2013 appearance in a Shark Tank episode where the show panel declined funding the startup.	The use of video recording has led to important discoveries in the interpretation of micro-expressions, facial movements which last a few milliseconds.	The use of video recording led to major discoveries in the interpretation of micro-expressions, that is facial expressions lasting a few milliseconds.
French: Duvall, qui est marié et a deux enfants adultes, n’a pas fait bonne impression à Miller, à qui l’histoire a été relatée. = English: Duvall, who is married with two adult children, did not leave a big impression on Miller, to whom the story was related.	Most of the smaller islands are independent nations, or associated with France, and known as luxury beach resorts.	Most of the small islands are independent nations, or associated with France, and are known for being luxury beach resorts.
French: La grande pyramide a été créée pour honorer le pharaon Khéops, et beaucoup de petites pyramides, tombes et temples ont été construits pour honorer ses femmes ainsi que les membres de sa famille. = English: The great pyramid was created to honor the Pharaoh Khufu, and many of the smaller pyramids, tombs, and temples were built to honor Khufu's wives and family members.	Argentina is well known for having one of the best polo teams and players in the world.	Argentina is known for having one of the best teams and among the best polo players in the world.
French: Pendant les années 20, la plupart des citoyens et des nations montraient un penchant pour le pacifisme et l’isolement. = English: During the 1920s, the prevailing attitudes of most citizens and nations was that of pacifism and isolation.	He has been unable to take the drugs needed to overcome his pain as they are banned from the Games.	He was unable to take the necessary medication to overcome his pain, as these were banned within the Games.
French: Cela ressemble au ski de randonnée de type alpin, ainsi qu'à l'alpinisme, sans toutefois incorporer en général ces activités, qui se pratiquent sur des terrains accidentés et qui exigent l'utilisation de skis et de bottes beaucoup plus rigides. = English: It is related to but usually not involving alpine style ski touring or mountaineering, the latter ones done in steep terrain and requiring much stiffer skis and boots.	They can also hold the reservation for you if you need time to think about the offer or procure other documents for your destination (e.g. visa).	They can also hold your booking for you if you need time to think about the offer or to get other documents needed for your destination (e.g. a visa).
French: Aucun enfant ne devrait jamais avoir à grandir dans un environnement qui n’est pas stimulant, attentionné et éducatif, mais c’est le cas. = English: No child should ever have to grow up in an environment that is not nurturing, caring, and educational, but they do.	It is not something to be ashamed of: it is no different from the personal fears and dislikes of other things that very many people have.	We should not be ashamed of it: it is no different from the fears and anxieties that many people have about other things.
French: En 1990, il a été ajouté à la liste des sites du patrimoine mondial en danger, en raison de la menace des sables du désert. = English: In 1990, it was added to the list of world heritage sites in danger, due to the threat of desert sands.	Fruit pastries are common, with apples cooked into pastries year round, and cherries and plums making their appearances during the summer.	Fruit pastries are common: apples are cooked and baked all year round, while cherries and plums appear in summer.
French: Le président américain George W. Bush a accueilli cette annonce avec satisfaction. = English: U.S. President George W. Bush welcomed the announcement.	A full 20 percent of the water that pours out of the planet's rivers into the oceans comes from the Amazon.	Not less than 20 % of the water that flows from the rivers of the planet into the oceans comes from the Amazon.
French: Les citoyens de la Cité du Vatican sont tous catholiques. = English: All citizens of Vatican City are Roman Catholic.	Winter sports are most popular in the Northern regions, with Italians competing in international games and Olympic events.	Winter sports are most popular in the northern regions, Italians participating in international games and Olympic events.
French: Autre différence : alors que les pauvres et la femme mangeaient leur nourriture en étant assis sur des chaises, les hommes riches aimaient organiser des banquets ensemble où ils se reposaient sur le côté pendant qu’ils prenaient leur repas. = English: Another difference was that while the poor people and the woman ate their food while sitting in chairs, the rich men liked to have banquets together where they would lounge on their sides while they ate their meals.	The document, according to the leak, will refer to the borders dispute, which Palestine wants based on the borders before the 1967 Mideast War.	According to the leak, the document will deal with the border dispute that Palestine claims on the basis of the existing borders before the Middle East War of 1967.
French: Cependant, ceux qui parlent un peu espagnol pourraient conclure hâtivement que le portugais en est suffisamment proche pour qu’il ne soit pas nécessaire de l’étudier séparément. = English: However, people who know a little Spanish may hastily conclude that Portuguese is close enough that it need not be studied separately.	Though it is widely used, especially among non-Romani, the word "Gypsy" is often considered offensive because of its associations with negative stereotypes and inaccurate perceptions of Romani people.	Although widely used, especially by non-Rom people, the term "Gypsy" is often considered pejorative because of its association with negative stereotypes and a distorted image of the Rom people.
French: Ensuite, Lakkha Singh a pris l'initiative de chanter les bhajans. = English: Then, Lakkha Singh took the lead in singing the bhajans.	Scotturb Bus 403 travels regularly to Sintra, stopping at Cabo da Roca.	The bus 403 of Scotturb regularly goes to Sintra, with a stop at Cabo da Roca.
French: De même que les hommes doivent porter un pantalon couvrant les genoux. = English: Along the same line, men are required to wear trousers covering the knees.	A binary number can have only one of two values, i.e. 0 or 1, and these numbers are referred to as binary digits - or bits, to use computer jargon.	A binary number can only have one of two values: 0 or 1. These numbers are called binary digits, or bits for computer jargon.
French: Ce qui fut l'antique cité de Smyrne est aujourd'hui un centre commercial moderne, développé et vivant, installé autour d'une immense baie, entourée de montagnes. = English: Once the ancient city of Smyrna, it is now a modern, developed, and busy commercial center, set around a huge bay and surrounded by mountains.	We don't know for sure, but it may have had a forked tongue. Its diet included turtles, large fish, other mosasaurs, and it may even have been a cannibal.	We are not sure, but it is possible that he had a forked tongue. His diet included turtles, large fish, other mosasaurs, and it is even possible that he was cannibal.
French: Il n'y a pas vraiment de saisons « pluvieuses » et « sèches » : les précipitations sont à peu près constantes tout au long de l'année. = English: There are no particular "rainy" and "dry" seasons: the amount of rain stays roughly the same throughout the year.	Several people verified the discovery using different hardware and software by the beginning of February and it was announced on Tuesday.	Several people checked the discovery using different equipment and software at the beginning of February, and it was announced on Tuesday.
French: Au Japon, les premières fêtes des cerisiers en fleurs ont été organisées par l’empereur uniquement pour lui-même et les autres membres de l’aristocratie proche autour de la Cour impériale. = English: In Japan, the first cherry blossom parties were hosted by the emperor only for himself and other members of the aristocracy around the Imperial Court.	He is speculated to make a run for president in 2016.	He is thought to run for president in 2016.
French: On dit donc que le rapport d'aspect de ce format (en divisant par douze pour obtenir le plus simple des rapports de nombres entiers) est de 3:2. = English: The aspect ratio of this format (dividing by twelve to obtain the simplest whole-number ratio) is therefore said to be 3:2.	Travel agents usually offer packages that include breakfast, transportation arrangements to/from the airport or even combined flight and hotel packages.	Travel agencies generally offer packages that include breakfast, airport transfer service, or even packages combining the flight and accommodation.
French: Si un cavalier est projeté d’un cheval, mais a un pied pris dans l’étrier, il pourrait être traîné si le cheval s’enfuit. Pour minimiser ce risque, un certain nombre de mesures de sécurité peuvent être prises. = English: If a rider is thrown from a horse but has a foot caught in the stirrup, they could be dragged if the horse runs away. To minimize this risk, a number of safety precautions can be taken.	The lower the tension, the more positive the life force present. Every person has the potential to find absolute peace and contentment.	The lower the tension, the more positive the vital force present. Each person has the possibility of finding absolute peace and contentment.
French: On dit donc que le rapport d'aspect de ce format (en divisant par douze pour obtenir le plus simple des rapports de nombres entiers) est de 3:2. = English: The aspect ratio of this format (dividing by twelve to obtain the simplest whole-number ratio) is therefore said to be 3:2.	He added that "they should not, however, be asked to take on obligations that go beyond their development stage, responsibility and capabilities."	He added that “they should not be asked to assume obligations that go beyond their stage of development, their responsibility and their capacities.”
French: Les victimes sont Nicholas Alden, 25 ans, et Zachary Cuddeback, 21 ans. Cuddeback était le conducteur. = English: The fatalities were Nicholas Alden, 25, and Zachary Cuddeback, 21. Cuddeback had been the driver.	A satellite phone is not generally a replacement for a mobile phone, as you have to be outdoors with clear line of sight to the satellite to make a phone call.	A satellite phone is usually not a substitute for a mobile phone, because you have to be outside and have a clear view of the satellite to make a call.
French: Il est donc probable que la notation a été ajoutée simplement comme une étiquette. = English: So, it is likely that the notation was added simply as a label.	Around the old Medina it's easy to find places selling traditional Moroccan goods, such as tagines, pottery, leather goods, hookahs, and a whole spectrum of geegaws, but it's all for the tourists.	Around the old medina, you can easily find places where to buy traditional Moroccan products, such as tajines, pottery, leather goods, hookahs and all kinds of trinkets, but that's all for tourists.
French: Le spectacle son et lumière à la pyramide constitue l'une des attractions les plus intéressantes de la région pour les enfants. = English: The pyramid sound and light show is one of the most interesting things in the area for kids.	It also had no authority to override tax laws and tariffs between states.	He also lacked the power to derogate from tax laws or those on customs duties between the states.
French: De nombreux voyages sur le récif sont effectués tout au long de l'année, et les blessures dues à l'une de ces causes sur le récif sont rares. = English: Many trips to the reef are made all year around, and injuries due to any of these causes on the reef are rare.	This was more like the four states of matter (in the same order): solid, liquid, gas, and plasma, though he also theorised that they change into new substances to form what we see.	It was rather the four states of matter (in the same order) : solid, liquid, gas and plasma, although he also theorized that these last ones transform into new substances to form what we see.
French: Les 25 feuilles Dunlap dont on connaît encore l'existence sont les plus anciennes copies du document. La copie manuscrite originale n'a pas survécu. = English: The 25 Dunlap broadsides still known to exist are the oldest surviving copies of the document. The original handwritten copy has not survived.	Some roads have been damaged, railway service interrupted in the affected areas, and the Noto Airport in Ishikawa prefecture remains closed.	Some roads have been damaged, rail service has been suspended in the affected areas, and the Noto Airport in Ishikawa Prefecture is still closed.
French: L'ONU espère également finaliser un fonds pour aider les pays touchés par le réchauffement climatique à faire face aux impacts. = English: The U.N. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts.	Arly Velasquez of Mexico finished fifteenth in the men's sitting Super-G. New Zealand's Adam Hall finished ninth in the men's standing Super-G.	Mexican Arly Velasquez finished 15th in the men's sitting Super-G. New Zealander Adam Hall finished ninth in the men's standing Super-G.
French: Le 17 septembre 1939, la défense polonaise était déjà brisée, et le seul espoir était de battre en retraite et de se réorganiser le long de la tête de pont roumaine. = English: By September 17, 1939, the Polish defense was already broken, and the only hope was to retreat and reorganise along the Romanian bridgehead.	For some, understanding something about how aircraft work and what happens during a flight may help to overcome a fear which is based on the unknown or on not being in control.	For some, understanding something about how planes work and what happens during a flight can help overcome a fear that is based on the unknown or not having control.
French: De nombreux formats courants (famille de formats APS, par exemple) sont égaux à ce rapport d’aspect ou s’en approchent de près. = English: Many common formats (APS family of formats, for example) are equal to or closely approximate this aspect ratio.	The service is frequently used by shipping, including pleasure craft, as well as expeditions who have remote data and voice needs.	This is a service often used by navigation, including pleasure craft, as well as by expeditions that have data transmission and telephony needs.
French: En outre, il existe de nombreux petits chats (y compris les chats de compagnie en liberté) qui mangent les petites proies, bien plus nombreuses, comme les insectes, les rongeurs, les lézards et les oiseaux. = English: Finally, there are many small cats (including loose pet cats) that eat the far more numerous small prey like insects, rodents, lizards, and birds.	In some areas boiling water for a minute is enough, in others several minutes are needed.	In some localities, it is enough to boil water for a minute; in others, it takes several minutes.
French: Les liens économiques ont été rétablis entre ces deux parties de la Moldavie malgré l'échec des négociations politiques. = English: Economic links have been re-established between these two parts of Moldova despite the failure in political negotiations.	Periodic rhythms, which are not simply responses to external periodic cues, have been documented for most living beings, including bacteria, fungi, plants, and animals.	Periodic rhythms, which do not simply constitute responses to periodic external stimuli, have been documented for most living beings, including bacteria, fungi, plants and animals.
French: Edgar Veguilla a été blessé au bras et à la mâchoire tandis que Kristoffer Schneider a dû subir une chirurgie reconstructive pour son visage. = English: Edgar Veguilla received arm and jaw wounds while Kristoffer Schneider was left requiring reconstructive surgery for his face.	While project based learning should make learning easier and more interesting, scaffolding goes a step beyond.	While project-based learning should make learning easier and more interesting, the support goes further.
French: Le persan a une grammaire relativement facile et la plupart du temps régulière. = English: Persian has a relatively easy and mostly regular grammar.	The mob of people forced the King And Queen to have their carriage windows wide open.	The king and queen were forced, because of the crowd, to have the windows of their carriages opened.
French: Quand vous rentrez chez vous après avoir vécu à l'étranger, vous vous êtes déjà adapté à la nouvelle culture et avez perdu certaines habitudes de votre culture d'origine. = English: When returning home after living abroad, you've adapted to the new culture and lost some of your habits from your home culture.	The Sundarbans has been declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The part of the forest within Indian territory is called Sundarbans National Park.	The Sundarbans have been declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The part of the forest located on Indian territory is called the Sundarbans National Park.
French: Il va sans dire que si vous connaissez une langue romane, il vous sera plus facile d'apprendre le portugais. = English: Needless to say, if you know a Romance language, it will be easier for you to learn Portuguese.	The term safari in popular use refers to overland travel to view the stunning African wildlife, particularly on savanna.	In common language, the term "safari" refers to an excursion on African land, and especially in the savannah, with the aim of witnessing the striking spectacle of wild animals in their natural habitat.
French: En France, le vote est traditionnellement une expérience de faible technicité : les électeurs s’isolent dans une cabine, mettent dans une enveloppe une feuille de papier pré-imprimée indiquant le candidat de leur choix. = English: In France, voting has traditionally been a low-tech experience: voters isolate themselves in a booth, put a pre-printed sheet of paper indicating their candidate of choice into an envelope.	According to the lawsuit, waste from the UN camp was not properly sanitized, causing bacteria to enter the tributary of the Artibonite River, one of Haiti's largest.	According to the trial, the waste from the UN camp was not properly sanitized, causing bacteria to enter the Artibonite River, one of Haiti's largest rivers.
French: Les plantes produisent leur nourriture à l'aide du soleil par photosynthèse. Elles fournissent également de l’ombre. = English: Plants make their food from the sun by photosynthesis. They also provide shade.	As long as you stay in this zone, you can generally cross borders without going through passport control checkpoints again.	As long as you stay in this zone, you can usually cross borders without going through passport control points again.
French: Il va sans dire que si vous connaissez une langue romane, il vous sera plus facile d'apprendre le portugais. = English: Needless to say, if you know a Romance language, it will be easier for you to learn Portuguese.	Tommy Dreamer said "Luna was the first Queen of Extreme. My first manager. Luna passed away on the night of two moons. Pretty unique just like her. Strong woman."	Tommy Dreamer said, "Luna was the first Extreme Queen. My first manager. Luna died the night of two moons. A unique moment, just like her. A strong woman."
French: La chasse, la pêche, la photographie, l’observation des oiseaux, la visite de parcs et l’étude des informations sur l’écosystème sont des exemples d’activités sur place. = English: Examples of on-site activities include hunting, fishing, photography, bird watching, and visiting parks and studying information about the ecosystem.	Out on the savanna, it is hard for a primate with a digestive system like that of humans to satisfy its amino-acid requirements from available plant resources.	In the savannah, it is difficult for a primate with a digestive system similar to that of humans to satisfy its amino acid requirements from the available plant resources.
French: Identique à une télécommande de télévision, la commande utilise deux capteurs placés près du téléviseur de l'utilisateur pour trianguler sa position dans l'espace tridimensionnel. = English: Resembling a television remote, the controller uses two sensors placed near the user's television to triangulate its position in three-dimensional space.	During this period of European history, the Catholic Church, which had become rich and powerful, came under scrutiny.	During this period of European history, the Catholic Church, which had become rich and powerful, was challenged.
French: Le style gothique a connu son apogée entre le Xe–XIe siècle et le XIVe siècle. = English: Gothic style peaked in the period between the 10th - 11th centuries and the 14th century.	Xinhua reported that government investigators recovered two 'black box' flight recorders on Wednesday.	Xinhua agency reported that the government investigators recovered two flight recorders (or "black boxes") on Wednesday.
French: Un employé d'un garage proche du lieu de l’accident a déclaré : « il y avait des enfants qui cherchaient à traverser la route, et qui criaient et pleuraient. » = English: A person working in a garage near where the accident occurred said: "There were children waiting to cross the road and they were all screaming and crying."	Infrared images show that the temperature variations from night and day show that they are likely caves.	The infrared images reveal, based on the temperature variations between day and night, that it is probably caves.
French: « Il [Wales] nous a carrément menti dès le départ. Tout d'abord en prétextant des raison légales, puis en faisant semblant de nous écouter jusqu'à ce qu'il ait supprimé son œuvre. » = English: "He [Wales] basically lied to us from the start. First, by acting as if this was for legal reasons. Second, by pretending he was listening to us, right up to his art deletion."	Many paleontologists today believe that one group of dinosaurs survived and is alive today. We call them birds.	Many paleontologists today believe that a group of dinosaurs survived and are still alive. They are called birds.
French: La rangée d'immeubles qui dessine l'horizon de Hong Kong a été comparée à un graphique à barres scintillant, qui se révèle par réflexion dans les eaux du port de Victoria. = English: The parade of buildings that make the Hong Kong skyline has been likened to a glittering bar chart that is made apparent by the presence of the waters of Victoria Harbour.	Nothing can be seen other than the clear, beautiful sky above and the many surrounding mountains. Very little of this world can be seen or heard from inside the cave.	Above, one can only contemplate the clear and beautiful sky and the many surrounding mountains. From within the cave, one can see or hear very little of this world.
French: Ces protestations parfois violentes ont été déclenchées par l’absence d’élections, dont certaines devaient avoir lieu en 2011. = English: The sometimes-violent protests were triggered by failure to hold elections, some due since 2011.	Since 1988, ballot boxes must be transparent so that voters and observers can witness that no envelopes are present at the start of the vote and that no envelopes are added except those of the duly counted and authorized voters.	Since 1988, the ballot boxes must be transparent so that voters and observers can see that no envelopes are present at the start of the vote and that no envelopes are added, except those of voters properly counted and authorized.
French: Participer pratiquement à une excursion est également un excellent moyen de réfléchir à un voyage et de partager ses expériences avec des générations futures. = English: Sharing a field trip virtually is also a great way to reflect a on a trip and share experiences with future classes.	The war expenditures of U.S. imperialism in the conquest of the Philippines were paid for by the Filipino people themselves.	The war expenses of American imperialism in the conquest of the Philippines were paid by the Filipino people themselves.
French: Là, ils ont trouvé le corps de Saroja Balasubramanian, 53 ans, couvert de couvertures tachées de sang. = English: There, they found the body of Saroja Balasubramanian, 53, covered with blood-stained blankets.	Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Texas governor Rick Perry, and Congresswoman Michele Bachmann finished in fourth, fifth, and sixth place, respectively.	Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, Rick Perry, the Texas governor, and Michele Bachmann, the senator, finished fourth, fifth and sixth.
French: Pour des informations sur les tournois et les endroits où acheter des billets pour les matchs de polo, consultez l’Asociacion Argentina de Polo. = English: For news on tournaments and where to buy tickets for polo matches, check Asociacion Argentina de Polo.	It warns No one can guarantee that any course of action in Iraq at this point will stop sectarian warfare, growing violence, or a slide toward chaos.	He warns that no one can guarantee that any action in Iraq at this stage will end the sectarian war, the growing violence or the slide toward chaos.
French: Certaines routes ont été endommagées, le service ferroviaire a été suspendu dans les zones affectées, et l’aéroport de Noto de la préfecture d’Ishikawa est toujours fermé. = English: Some roads have been damaged, railway service interrupted in the affected areas, and the Noto Airport in Ishikawa prefecture remains closed.	During his trip, Iwasaki ran into trouble on many occasions.	Iwasaki had problems on many occasions during his journey.
French: Le mois dernier, l'Iran a connu sa pire catastrophe aérienne depuis des années lorsqu'un avion de ligne se dirigeant vers l'Arménie s'est écrasé, tuant les 168 personnes à bord. = English: Last month Iran saw its worst air disaster in years when an airliner heading to Armenia crashed, killing the 168 on board.	Earlier this week, a police helicopter crash killed three people and wounded three more.	At the beginning of this week, the crash of a police helicopter killed three people and injured three others.
French: Finalement, les roues en bois ont été remplacées par des roues en fer. En 1767, les premiers rails en fer ont fait leur apparition. = English: Eventually, wooden wheels were replaced by iron wheels. In 1767, the first full-iron rails were introduced.	There are still many men and women alive who survived their time here, and many more who had loved ones who were murdered or worked to death there, Jews and non-Jews alike.	There are still many women and men alive who survived their stay here, and many others who saw their relatives murdered or killed by forced labor, Jews or non-Jews indifferently.
French: Les Arabes ont également apporté la pratique de l'Islam dans les terres et cette religion s'est largement répandue aux Comores et à Mayotte. = English: The Arabs also brought Islam to the lands, and it took in a big way in the Comoros and Mayotte.	To the north and within easy reach is the romantic and fascinating town of Sintra and which was made famous to foreigners after a glowing account of its splendours recorded by Lord Byron.	The romantic and fascinating city of Sintra, located in the north, is easily accessible and has been made famous among foreigners by the brilliant account of its splendor that Lord Byron gave of it.
French: Le symbole « pousser » ressemble à un V et le symbole « tirer » à une agrafe ou à un carré dont le côté inférieur est manquant. = English: The "up bow" mark looks like a V and the "down bow mark" like a staple or a square missing its bottom side.	Ring also settled a lawsuit with competing security company, the ADT Corporation.	Ring also settled a lawsuit with a competing security company, ADT Corporation.
French: L'Institut haïtien pour la justice et la démocratie a fait référence à des études indépendantes qui suggèrent que le bataillon népalais de maintien de la paix de l'ONU a involontairement apporté la maladie à Haïti. = English: The Haitian Institute for Justice and Democracy has referenced independent studies that suggest the Nepalese UN peacekeeping battalion unknowingly brought the disease to Haiti.	Despite leaving the show in 1993 he kept the title of executive producer, and continued to receive tens of millions of dollars every season in royalties.	Despite his departure from the show in 1993, he retained the title of executive producer and continued to receive tens of millions of dollars each season in royalties.
French: Les autorités supposent que cela signifie que les réservoirs de combustible d'uranium sur le site comporteraient des fissures et des fuites. = English: Authorities speculate that this indicates that containers holding uranium fuel at the site may have ruptured and are leaking.	When asked for comment, Miller said, "Mike talks a lot during the hearing...I was getting ready so I wasn't really hearing what he was saying."	When asked to comment, Miller said, "Mike talks a lot during the hearing… I was getting ready, so I didn't really hear what he was saying."
French: Pratiquement tous les ordinateurs utilisés aujourd'hui sont basés sur la manipulation d'informations qui sont codées sous forme de nombres binaires. = English: Virtually all computers in use today are based on the manipulation of information which is coded in the form of binary numbers.	The Schengen zone, however, works somewhat like one country in this respect.	The Schengen area, however, works a bit like a single country in this respect.
French: Ces théories examinent ce qui pousse certaines personnes à vouloir les choses qu’elles font et ce qui, dans leur environnement, les pousse à faire ou à ne pas faire certaines choses. = English: These theories look at what it is about certain people that make them want the things that they do and what things in their environment will make them do or not do certain things.	The games kicked off at 10:00am with great weather and apart from mid morning drizzle which quickly cleared up, it was a perfect day for 7's rugby.	The matches started at 10 am with a beautiful day and, apart from the drizzle in the middle of the morning which quickly cleared up, it was a perfect day for rugby sevens.
French: La police du Madhya Pradesh a retrouvé l'ordinateur portable et le téléphone mobile volés. = English: The Madhya Pradesh Police recovered the stolen laptop and mobile phone.	The Ninth Ward, which saw flooding as high as 20 feet during Hurricane Katrina, is currently in waist-high water as the nearby levee was overtopped.	The ninth district, which experienced flooding up to 20 feet high during Hurricane Katrina, is currently under water up to the waist because the neighboring levee has been overtopped.
French: Les extérieurs abrupts des Parisiens s’évaporent rapidement si vous faites preuve d’un minimum de courtoisie. = English: Parisians' abrupt exteriors will rapidly evaporate if you display some basic courtesies.	The distinct characteristics of the Internet lead to additional dimensions in terms of the uses and gratifications approach.	The distinctive characteristics of the Internet lead to additional dimensions in terms of the uses and gratifications approach.
French: « Leur comportement thermique n’est pas aussi stable que celui des grandes grottes de la planète qui maintiennent une température constante, mais ils se ressemblent en ce qu’ils sont des trous profonds dans la terre », selon Glen Cushing, membre de l’équipage de l'USGS (Centre américain d’études géologiques) et du personnel de l’Université d’Arizona du Nord situé à Flagstaff, en Arizona. = English: Their thermal behavior is not as steady as large caves on Earth that often maintain a fairly constant temperature, but it is consistent with these being deep holes in the ground," said Glen Cushing of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Astrogeology Team and of Northern Arizona University located in Flagstaff, Arizona.	The pyramid sound and light show is one of the most interesting things in the area for kids.	The sound and light show at the pyramid is one of the most interesting attractions for children in the area.
French: Pendant les blizzards, il peut tomber en très peu de temps assez de neige pour vous bloquer. = English: During blizzards, enough snow to get you stuck can fall in very little time.	Throughout 1960s, Brzezinski worked for John F. Kennedy as his advisor and then the Lyndon B. Johnson administration.	Throughout the 1960s, Brzezinski worked for John F. Kennedy as a consultant, then for the administration of Lyndon B. Johnson.
French: Les autorités locales avertissent les habitants des environs de rester à l’intérieur, d’éteindre les climatiseurs et de ne pas boire l’eau du robinet. = English: Local authorities are warning residents in the vicinity of the plant to stay indoors, turn off air-conditioners and not to drink tap water.	On icy and snowy roadways, friction is low and you cannot drive as if you were on bare asphalt.	On icy and snowy roads, the friction is low and you can't drive as if you were on bare asphalt.
French: Le ski est une activité de voyage majeure qui compte de nombreux aficionados, parfois appelés « ski bums », qui organisent leurs vacances entières en fonction du ski dans des endroits spécifiques. = English: Skiing is a major travelling activity with many enthusiasts, occasionally known as "ski bums," planning entire vacations around skiing at a particular location.	Australia's Mitchell Gourley finished eleventh in the men's standing Super-G. Czech competitor Oldrich Jelinek finished sixteenth in the men's sitting Super-G.	Australian Mitchell Gourley came 11th in the standing men's Super-G. Czech Oldrich Jelinek came 16th in the sitting men's Super-G.
French: Les premiers rapports indiquent que l’avion a été détourné vers l’Afghanistan après s’être vu refuser un atterrissage d’urgence à Ürümqi. = English: The early reports say the plane was diverted back to Afghanistan after being denied an emergency landing in Ürümqi.	Police superintendent Chandra Shekhar Solanki said the accused appeared in court with covered faces.	Chandra Shekhar Solanki, police commissioner, said the accused were wearing masks when they appeared in court.
French: Malgré son départ de l'émission en 1993, il a conservé le titre de producteur exécutif et a continué à recevoir des dizaines de millions de dollars chaque saison en redevances. = English: Despite leaving the show in 1993 he kept the title of executive producer, and continued to receive tens of millions of dollars every season in royalties.	During blizzards, enough snow to get you stuck can fall in very little time.	During blizzards, it can fall in very little time enough snow to block you.
French: Le mois dernier, une commission présidentielle a recommandé la dissolution du précédent CEP dans le cadre d’un ensemble de mesures visant à engager le pays sur la voie de nouvelles élections. = English: Last month a presidential commission recommended the prior CEP's resignation as part of a package of measures to move the country towards new elections.	Women did the cooking in the yard; stores were just open counters looking into the street. Stone was used for building houses.	Women cooked in the courtyard; shops were just open counters facing the street. Houses were built of stone.
French: Il existe différentes méthodes de purification de l'eau, dont certaines sont plus efficaces contre des menaces spécifiques. = English: There are different ways of purifying water, some more effective against specific threats.	During the 1980s he worked on shows such as Taxi, Cheers, and The Tracy Ullman Show.	During the 1980s, he worked on shows such as Taxi, Cheers and The Tracy Ullman Show.
French: Pas moins de 20 % de l'eau qui se jette des rivières de la planète dans les océans provient de l'Amazone. = English: A full 20 percent of the water that pours out of the planet's rivers into the oceans comes from the Amazon.	Christmas is one of the most important holidays of Christianity, and is celebrated as the birthday of Jesus.	Christmas is one of the most important Christian holidays, it celebrates the birth of Jesus.
French: Même si un vaccin expérimental semble jusqu'ici capable de réduire le taux de mortalité d'Ebola, aucun remède n'a encore été suffisamment efficace pour traiter l'infection existante. = English: While one experimental vaccine appears able to reduce Ebola mortality, up until now, no drugs have been clearly demonstrated suitable for treating existing infection.	Although three people were inside the house when the car impacted it, none of them were hurt.	Although three people were present in the house when the car hit it, none of them were injured.
French: "Dans une interview, il a déclaré que la nouvelle mutation était ""très troublante et alarmante en raison du taux de mortalité très élevé""." = English: In an interview, he said the new variant was "very highly troubling and alarming because of the very high fatality rate."	An up-bow usually generates a softer sound, while a down-bow is stronger and more assertive.	A bow up usually produces a softer sound, while a bow down is stronger and more assertive.
French: Une voiture piégée a explosé au siège de la police à Gaziantep, en Turquie, hier matin, tuant deux officiers de police et blessant plus de vingt autres personnes. = English: A car bomb detonated at police headquarters in Gaziantep, Turkey yesterday morning killed two police officers and injured more than twenty other people.	Michael Schumacher ended his race not long after Alonso, because of the suspension damage in the numerous battles during the race.	Michael Schumacher finished his race shortly after Alonso, due to damage sustained to the suspension throughout the race.
French: Le plateau de Gizeh, ou « nécropole de Gizeh », dans la vallée des Morts en Égypte, regroupe plusieurs pyramides (la grande pyramide étant la plus imposante), plusieurs petits tombeaux, de nombreux temples et le grand Sphinx. = English: The Giza Plateau, or "Giza Necropolis" in the Egyptian Valley of the Dead contains several pyramids (of which the great pyramid is the largest), several small tombs, several temples, and the great Sphinx.	She is in custody pending indictment and trial, but any eyewitness evidence may be tainted because her image has been widely published.	She is in custody awaiting her indictment and trial, but eyewitness testimony could be compromised because her portrait has been widely disseminated.
French: Ce qui fut l'antique cité de Smyrne est aujourd'hui un centre commercial moderne, développé et vivant, installé autour d'une immense baie, entourée de montagnes. = English: Once the ancient city of Smyrna, it is now a modern, developed, and busy commercial center, set around a huge bay and surrounded by mountains.	Some reports put the official death toll at eight, and official reports confirm that up to 30 were injured; but final numbers are not yet known.	Some reports put the official death toll at eight, and official reports confirm that up to 30 people were injured; but the final figures are not yet known.
French: Le déterminisme technologique est un terme qui englobe un large éventail d'idées dans la pratique, allant de la poussée technologique ou de l'impératif technologique à un sens strict selon lequel le destin de l'humanité est dicté par une logique sous-jacente liée aux lois scientifiques et à leur manifestation dans les technologies. = English: Technological determinism is a term that encompasses a wide range of ideas in practice, from technology-push or the technological imperative to a strict sense that human destiny is driven by an underlying logic associated with scientific laws and their manifestation in technology.	The correlation between brain pathology and behaviour supports scientists in their research.	The correlation between brain pathology and behavior supports scientists in their research.
French: Le système de l'IA est désormais souvent utilisé dans les domaines de l'économie, de la médecine, de l'ingénierie et de l'armée, comme il l'a été mis en plance dans plusieurs logiciels d'ordinateur domestique et de jeux vidéo. = English: The AI ​​system is now often used in the fields of economics, medicine, engineering and the military, as has been built in several home computer and video game software applications.	He even suggests that such abilities in interpreting human behavior may be shared by animals such as domestic dogs.	It even suggests that such capabilities for interpreting human behavior may be found in animals such as domestic dogs.
French: Israël exige une présence militaire permanente dans la vallée pour une durée de dix années à compter de la signature d'un accord, tandis que l'Autorité palestinienne ne consent qu'à une durée de cinq ans. = English: Israel demands an ongoing military presence in the valley for ten years once an agreement is signed while the PA agrees to leave such presence only for five years.	In an adoption, the birth parents terminate their parental rights so that another couple may parent the child.	In the case of adoption, the biological parents relinquish their parental rights so that another couple can raise the child.
French: On essaie encore de déterminer quelle a été l'ampleur de l'accident et comment la Terre sera affectée. = English: They are still trying to determine just how large the crash was and how the Earth will be affected.	They usually have special food, drink and entertainment offers, to keep guests in a good mood, and keep them at the premise.	They generally offer special deals on food, drinks and entertainment in order to keep the guests happy and keep them there.
French: Des rapports ultérieurs ont ensuite révélé que l’appareil avait fait l'objet d'une menace d’attaque à la bombe et été redirigé vers l’Afghanistan pour atterrir à Kandahar. = English: Later reports then stated the plane received a bomb threat and was diverted back to Afghanistan, landing in Kandahar.	The Sphinx is set as the backdrop and the narrator of a long story.	The Sphinx is placed as the background and narrator of a long story.
French: Les plages sont nombreuses, car Auckland est à cheval sur deux ports. Les plus populaires se trouvent dans trois zones. = English: There are many beaches, due to Auckland's straddling of two harbours. The most popular ones are in three areas.	A couple may decide it is not in their best interest, or in the interest of their child, to raise a baby.	A couple can very well consider that it is not in their interest, nor in that of the child, to take care of the education of a baby.
French: Le transport supplémentaire est inexistant et les trains de surface ne s’arrêteront pas à Wembley, et les parkings et parcs relais ne sont pas disponibles au sol. = English: No extra transport is being put on and overground trains will not stop at Wembley, and car parking and park-and-ride facilities are unavailable at the ground.	The Iraq Study Group presented its report at 12.00 GMT today.	The Iraq Study Group presented its report today at 12 pm GMT.
French: Les meutes sont composées d’un à trois mâles adultes apparentés, ainsi que d’une trentaine de femelles et de lionceaux. = English: Prides are made up of one to three related adult males, along with as many as thirty females and cubs.	Looking decidedly rusty in the game against their southern sisters, South Africa however steadily improved as the tournament progressed.	South Africa, which seemed to be rusty in its match against its southern counterparts, gradually improved as the tournament went on.
French: Ainsi, le crayon était un bon ami pour beaucoup de gens lorsqu’il est sorti. = English: Thus, the pencil was a good friend to many people when it came out.	The Giza Plateau, or "Giza Necropolis" in the Egyptian Valley of the Dead contains several pyramids (of which the great pyramid is the largest), several small tombs, several temples, and the great Sphinx.	The plateau of Gizeh, or the “Gizeh necropolis”, in the Valley of the Kings in Egypt, groups several pyramids (the Great Pyramid being the most imposing), several small tombs, many temples and the Great Sphinx.
French: De l'acide cyanurique et de la mélamine ont été découverts dans les échantillons d'urine prélevés sur les animaux domestiques qui sont morts après avoir ingéré de la nourriture pour animaux contaminée. = English: Both cyanuric acid and melamine were found in urine samples from pets that died after consuming contaminated pet food.	Bipedal specializations are found in Australopithecus fossils from 4.2-3.9 million years ago, although Sahelanthropus may have walked on two legs as early as seven million years ago.	Bipedal specializations are found in Australopithecus fossils from 4.2 to 3.9 million years ago, although Sahelanthropus may have been bipedal as far back as seven million years ago.
French: Mais il y a beaucoup de choses sur les oiseaux qui ressemblent encore à un dinosaure. = English: But there are a lot of things about birds that still look like a dinosaur.	The photographer was transported to Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, where he subsequently died.	The photographer was transported to the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, where he died from his injuries.
French: Dans le cadre d'une adoption, les parents biologiques mettent fin à leurs droits parentaux afin qu'un autre couple puisse élever l'enfant. = English: In an adoption, the birth parents terminate their parental rights so that another couple may parent the child.	Most interpretations of technological determinism share two general ideas: that the development of technology itself follows a path largely beyond cultural or political influence, and that technology in turn has "effects" on societies that are inherent, rather than socially conditioned.	Most interpretations of technological determinism agree on two general ideas: the development of technology itself takes place according to a process far beyond cultural and political influences, and technology has an impact on societies conditioned intrinsically rather than socially.
French: La police a déclaré qu’il semblerait que le corps se trouvait là depuis un jour environ. = English: Police said that the body appeared to have been there for about a day.	But being placed in the "high tropics" just a few degrees north of equator you will need to deal with both heat (always) and strong sun (when the sky is clear, more rarely).	But, located in the "high tropics" only a few degrees north of the equator, you will have to adapt to the heat (always) and to a strong sun radiation (when the sky is clear, which is rarer).
French: Son statut a décliné au cours du douzième siècle, principalement à cause du fait que les Croisés s'en revenaient chargés de présents tels que de la soie et des épices, avec lesquels les marchés byzantins pouvaient difficilement rivaliser. = English: Its status declined during the twelfth century mainly due to the fact that Crusaders had returned bearing gifts such as silks and spices that were valued more than what Byzantine markets offered.	He referred to the rumors as "political chatter and silliness".	He described the rumors as "political gossip and nonsense."
French: "Dans une interview, il a déclaré que la nouvelle mutation était ""très troublante et alarmante en raison du taux de mortalité très élevé""." = English: In an interview, he said the new variant was "very highly troubling and alarming because of the very high fatality rate."	The eathquake struck Mariana at 07:19 a.m. local time (09:19 p.m. GMT Friday).	The earthquake struck the Marianas at 7:19 a.m. local time (9:19 p.m. GMT Friday).
French: L'essor des nouvelles technologies nous permet de voir et d'étudier des structures et des processus cérébraux jamais vus auparavant. = English: The rise of new technologies allows us to see and investigate brain structures and processes never seen before.	Posted speed limits are noticeably lower than in previous and subsequent sections — commonly 35-40 mph (56-64 km/h) — and strict obedience to them is even more important than otherwise.	The posted speed limits are noticeably lower than in the preceding and following stretches – generally 35 to 40 mph (56-64 km/h) – and their strict observance is even more important than before.
French: Les sous-cultures rassemblent des individus se sentant négligés par les normes sociétales et partageant les mêmes idées ce qui leur permet de développer un sentiment d'identité. = English: Subcultures bring together like-minded individuals who feel neglected by societal standards and allow them to develop a sense of identity.	It can be pulled into thin wire, which can be twisted and plaited. It can be hammered or rolled into sheets.	It can be drawn into fine thread, which can be twisted and plaited. It can be hammered or rolled into sheets.
French: S'ils avaient envoyé des marchandises par fret aérien, sur certains itinéraires, il aurait fallu des jours pour passer le déchargement et la douane. = English: If they sent things by air freight, on some routes it may have taken days to get through unloading and customs.	But Prime Minister John Howard has said the act was only to safeguard the facilities of the hospital from being downgraded by the Tasmanian government, in giving an extra AUD$45 million.	But the Prime Minister John Howard said the law was aimed only at preventing the hospital's facilities from being downgraded by the Tasmanian government, by giving an extra $45 million Australian dollars.
French: Au cours de la fin du Moyen Âge, l'Europe occidentale a commencé à développer son propre style. Un des plus grands progrès de l'époque, suite aux croisades, fut l'utilisation de boutons pour la fermeture des vêtements. = English: towards the end of the Middle Ages western Europe began to develop their own style. one of the biggest developments of the time as a result of the crusades people began to use buttons to fasten clothing.	The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	On 6 October 1789, King Louis XVI, Queen Marie-Antoinette, their two young children (Marie-Thérèse, 11 years old, and Louis-Charles, 4 years old) and the sister of the king, Madame Élisabeth, all terrified, are forced to return to Paris from Versailles by a crowd of shopkeepers.
French: Le concept est venu de Chine où les fleurs de prunier étaient la fleur de prédilection. = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	After all, the leader is ultimately responsible for the success and failure of the team.	After all, the team leader is ultimately responsible for the success or failure of the team.
French: La surface totale du parc est de 19 500 km², celle-ci est divisée en 14 écozones, abritant chacune une faune spécifique. = English: The park covers 19,500 km² and is divided in 14 different ecozones, each supporting different wildlife.	. Scientists say this animal's plumage was chestnut-brown on top with a pale or carotenoid-colored underside.	Scientists say that the plumage of this animal was chestnut brown on top and pale or carotenoid on the underside.
French: Edgar Veguilla a été blessé au bras et à la mâchoire tandis que Kristoffer Schneider a dû subir une chirurgie reconstructive pour son visage. = English: Edgar Veguilla received arm and jaw wounds while Kristoffer Schneider was left requiring reconstructive surgery for his face.	Remember that even though music on the main stages may have finished, there may be sections of the festival that will keep playing music until late into the night.	Do not forget that even though the main musical shows are over, other musical shows can continue until late at night on other festival sites.
French: Enfin, après des milliers ou même des millions d'années, les deux populations paraîtront tellement différentes qu'elles ne pourront plus être considérées comme appartenant à la même espèce. = English: Eventually, after thousands or even millions of years, the two populations will look so different that they can't be called the same species.	This sediment was necessary for creating sandbars and beaches, which served as wildlife habitats.	This sediment was necessary for the creation of sandbanks and beaches, which served as habitats for the fauna.
French: Les voies navigables intérieures peuvent être un excellent thème pour des vacances. = English: Inland waterways can be a good theme to base a holiday around.	However, the percentage of XDR-TB in the entire group of people with tuberculosis still seems to be low; 6,000 of the total 330,000 people infected at any particular moment in South Africa.	However, the percentage of TB-UR in the whole group of people with tuberculosis still seems low; 6,000 people out of a total of 330,000 have been infected at some point in South Africa.
French: Les 25 feuilles Dunlap dont on connaît encore l'existence sont les plus anciennes copies du document. La copie manuscrite originale n'a pas survécu. = English: The 25 Dunlap broadsides still known to exist are the oldest surviving copies of the document. The original handwritten copy has not survived.	Majorcan cuisine, like that of similar zones in the Mediterranean, is based on bread, vegetables and meat (specially pork), and uses olive oil throughout.	Majorcan cuisine, like that of similar areas of the Mediterranean, is based on bread, vegetables and meat (especially pork), and uses olive oil.
French: Des chanteurs célèbres dans tout le pays ont présenté des bhajans, ou chants de dévotion, aux pieds de Shri Shyam. = English: Famous singers across the country presented bhajans, or devotional songs, to Shri Shyam's feet.	In an interview, he said the new variant was "very highly troubling and alarming because of the very high fatality rate."	"In an interview, he said that the new mutation was ""very troubling and alarming due to the very high mortality rate""."
French: Il est arrivé aux États-Unis avec quatre cents à son nom, un livre de poésie et une lettre de recommandation de Charles Batchelor (son directeur dans son précédent emploi) à l'attention de Thomas Edison. = English: He arrived in the US with 4 cents to his name, a book of poetry, and a letter of recommendation from Charles Batchelor (his manager in his previous job) to Thomas Edison.	Although AI has a strong connotation of science fiction, AI forms a very important branch of computer science, dealing with behavior, learning and intelligent adaptation in a machine.	Although Artificial Intelligence is often strongly associated with science fiction, it represents a very important part of computer science that studies the behavior, learning and intelligent adaptation of a machine.
French: Dans certaines localités, les boutiques hors taxes présentent une occasion d'acheter des biens exonérés de taxes et de droits d'accise. = English: Duty free shopping is the opportunity to buy goods exempted from taxes and excises at certain locations.	Every morning, people leave small country towns in cars to go their workplace and are passed by others whose work destination is the place they have just left.	Every morning, people leave the small towns in the countryside by car to go to work and meet other people who are going to work in the countryside they just left.
French: L’Australien Mitchell Gourley est arrivé 11e du Super-G debout homme. Le Tchèque Oldrich Jelinek s'est classé 16e au Super-G assis homme. = English: Australia's Mitchell Gourley finished eleventh in the men's standing Super-G. Czech competitor Oldrich Jelinek finished sixteenth in the men's sitting Super-G.	When a small group of living things (a small population) gets separated from the main population that they came from (like if they move over a mountain range or a river, or if they move to a new island so that they can't easily move back) they will often find themselves in a different environment than they were in before.	When a small group of living things (a small population) is separated from the main population from which it came (for example, if it moves over a mountain range or a river, or if it moves to a new island so that it cannot easily return), it often finds itself in a different environment from the one in which it was previously.
French: Les comètes ont peut-être été une source d'approvisionnement en eau pour la terre, ainsi qu'en matière organique qui peut former des protéines et favoriser la vie. = English: Comets may possibly have been a source of water delivery to the earth along with organic matter that can form proteins and support life.	It can be made very thin, and stuck onto other metal. It can be made so thin that it was sometimes used to decorate the hand-painted pictures in books called "illuminated manuscripts".	It can be made very thin and glued onto another metal. It can be so thin that it has sometimes been used to decorate the hand-painted images in books called "illuminated manuscripts".
French: De nos jours, de nombreux Sâmes pratiquent des métiers modernes. Le tourisme constitue une importante source de revenus en Laponie, la région sâme. = English: Today many Sámi work in modern trades. Tourism is an important income in Sápmi, the Sámi area.	People have known about basic chemical elements such as gold, silver, and copper from antiquity, as these can all be discovered in nature in native form and are relatively simple to mine with primitive tools.	Since antiquity, peoples have been familiar with basic chemical elements such as gold, silver and copper, because they are found in nature in their raw form and are fairly simple to mine with primitive tools.
French: L'Europe est un continent relativement petit, mais comportant de nombreux pays indépendants. Dans des circonstances classiques, voyager à travers plusieurs pays implique donc de devoir procéder à plusieurs demandes de visa et de subir plusieurs vérifications de passeport. = English: Europe is a continent that is relatively small but with many independent countries. Under normal circumstances, travelling through multiple countries would mean having to go through visa applications and passport control multiple times.	We perceive the Foster Care System to be a safety zone for these children.	We see the foster care system as a safe zone for these children.
French: Lorsque toutes les ressources disponibles sont utilisées efficacement dans les services fonctionnels d'une organisation, la créativité et l'ingéniosité peuvent s'exprimer pleinement. = English: When all available resources are effectively used across the functional departments of an organization, creativity and ingenuity can transpire.	The rise of new technologies allows us to see and investigate brain structures and processes never seen before.	The rise of new technologies allows us to see and study brain structures and processes never seen before.
French: L'interruption du sommeil est le processus qui consiste en l'éveil intentionnel durant votre période de sommeil et l'assoupissement peu de temps après (de 10 à 60 minutes). = English: Sleep interruption is the process of purposefully awakening during your normal sleep period and falling asleep a short time later (10–60 minutes).	The parade of buildings that make the Hong Kong skyline has been likened to a glittering bar chart that is made apparent by the presence of the waters of Victoria Harbour.	The row of skyscrapers that frames Hong Kong's horizon has been compared to a glittering bar chart, revealed by reflection in the waters of Victoria Harbour.
French: Le site web de la station décrit l’émission comme un « théâtre radiophonique de la vieille école avec une nouvelle et scandaleuse tournure geek ! ». = English: The station's web site describes the show as "old school radio theater with a new and outrageous geeky spin!"	Mutation adds new genetic variation, and selection removes it from the pool of expressed variation.	Mutation adds a new genetic variation, and selection removes it from the pool of expressed variations.
French: 108 assiettes de Chhappan Bhog (dans l'hindouisme, 56 aliments comestibles différents, comme des sucreries, des fruits, des noix, des plats etc. qui sont offerts à la divinité) ont été servis à Baba Shyam. = English: 108 plates of Chhappan Bhog (in Hinduism, 56 different edible items, like, sweets, fruits, nuts, dishes etc. which are offered to deity) were served to Baba Shyam.	A course will normally be from 2-5 days and will involve role play, a lot of first aid and sometimes weapons training.	A training normally lasts from 2 to 5 days and includes role-playing, a lot of first aid, and sometimes training in the use of weapons.
French: D’après la FAA, NextGen est un système qui permettrait aux appareils de voler sur des distances plus courtes et d’économiser des millions de gallons de carburant chaque année, limitant les émissions de carbone. = English: NextGen is a system the FAA claims would allow aircraft to fly shorter routes and save millions of gallons of fuel each year and cut carbon emissions.	He arrived in the US with 4 cents to his name, a book of poetry, and a letter of recommendation from Charles Batchelor (his manager in his previous job) to Thomas Edison.	He arrived in the United States with four hundred dollars in his name, a book of poetry, and a letter of recommendation from Charles Batchelor (his former employer) to Thomas Edison.
French: La police du Madhya Pradesh a retrouvé l'ordinateur portable et le téléphone mobile volés. = English: The Madhya Pradesh Police recovered the stolen laptop and mobile phone.	It isn’t alone though, experimentation, and an experiment is a test that is used to eliminate one or more of the possible hypotheses, asking questions, and making observations also guide scientific research.	However, it is not the only one, the experimentation, and an experiment is a test that serves to eliminate one or more of the possible hypotheses, ask questions and make observations, but also guides scientific research.
French: Plusieurs otages ont été sauvés, et la mort d’au moins six d’entre eux a été confirmée jusqu’à présent. = English: Several hostages have been rescued and least six have been confirmed dead so far.	Ottawa is Canada's charming, bilingual capital and features an array of art galleries and museums that showcase Canada's past and present.	Ottawa is the charming bilingual capital of Canada and has a large number of art galleries and museums that showcase the past and present of Canada.
French: La police a déclaré qu’il semblerait que le corps se trouvait là depuis un jour environ. = English: Police said that the body appeared to have been there for about a day.	He was initially hospitalised in the James Paget Hospital in Great Yarmouth.	He was first taken to the James Paget Hospital in Great Yarmouth.
French: De nombreux formats courants (famille de formats APS, par exemple) sont égaux à ce rapport d’aspect ou s’en approchent de près. = English: Many common formats (APS family of formats, for example) are equal to or closely approximate this aspect ratio.	A person working in a garage near where the accident occurred said: "There were children waiting to cross the road and they were all screaming and crying."	A garage employee near the accident site said, "There were children trying to cross the road, and they were crying and screaming."
French: "Lorsqu'on en fait bon usage, les blogs ""peuvent permettre aux étudiants de renforcer leurs capacités d'analyse et leur esprit critique : en réagissant activement aux contenus en ligne, ils peuvent confronter leur avis à celui des autres et exposer leurs propres points de vue sur des sujets bien précis"" (Oravec, 2002)." = English: Appropriate use of blogs "can empower students to become more analytical and critical; through actively responding to Internet materials, students can define their positions in the context of others' writings as well as outline their own perspectives on particular issues (Oravec, 2002).	Such children are called "feral" or wild. Some feral children have been confined by people (usually their own parents); in some cases this child abandonment was due to the parents' rejection of a child's severe intellectual or physical impairment.	These children are considered as "ferocious" or "savage". Some of these children were locked up by people (generally their own parents); in some cases, the abandonment of this child was due to the rejection by the parents of a severe intellectual or physical disability suffered by the child.
French: La semaine dernière, le METI a annoncé qu’Apple l’avait informé de 34 incidents de surchauffe supplémentaires, que la société a qualifiés de « non graves ». = English: Last week, METI announced that Apple had informed it of 34 additional overheating incidents, which the company called "non-serious."	Virtual team members often function as the point of contact for their immediate physical group.	Members of a virtual team often function as the point of contact for their immediate physical group.
French: Le roi et la reine ont été obligés, à cause de la foule, de faire ouvrir les fenêtres de leurs carrosses. = English: The mob of people forced the King And Queen to have their carriage windows wide open.	Elements like calcium and potassium are considered metals. Of course, there are also metals like silver and gold.	Elements such as calcium and potassium are considered metals. Of course, there are also metals such as silver and gold.
French: Par exemple, « l'apprentissage » et « la socialisation » sont considérés comme de grands facteurs favorisant l'utilisation d'Internet (James et al., 1995). = English: For example, “learning” and “socialization” are suggested as important motivations for Internet use (James et al., 1995).	While Goma is reasonably safe, any visits outside of Goma should be researched to understand the state of the fighting that persists in the North Kivu province.	Although Goma is reasonably safe, any visit outside of Goma should be researched to understand the state of the ongoing fighting in the province of North Kivu.
French: Initialement, l'émission était uniquement diffusée sur le vénérable site de radio Internet TogiNet Radio, un site consacré à la radio parlée. = English: In its early days, the show was featured solely at the long-running internet radio site TogiNet Radio, a site focused on talk radio.	The age where the events took place is commonly referred as the High Middle Ages the period of European history in the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries (AD 1000–1300).	These events took place during the period generally considered to be the High Middle Ages – a period of European history running from the 11th to the 13th century (1000-1300).
French: Pour mieux représenter le flux de trafic, des relations ont été établies entre les trois principales caractéristiques : (1) le débit, (2) la densité et (3) la vitesse. = English: To better represent traffic flow, relationships have been established between the three main characteristics: (1) flow, (2) density, and (3) velocity.	Though each country was 'Scandinavian', there were many differences between the people, kings, customs and history of Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Iceland.	Although each country is "Scandinavian", there are many differences between the peoples, kings, customs, and history of Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and Iceland.
French: Les accusés s'appellent Baba Kanjar, Bhutha Kanjar, Rampro Kanjar, Gaza Kanjar et Vishnu Kanjar. = English: The accused are named as Baba Kanjar, Bhutha Kanjar, Rampro Kanjar, Gaza Kanjar and Vishnu Kanjar.	Giancarlo Fisichella lost control of his car and ended the race very soon after the start.	Giancarlo Fisichella lost control of his car and finished the race shortly after the start.
French: Le mois dernier, une commission présidentielle a recommandé la dissolution du précédent CEP dans le cadre d’un ensemble de mesures visant à engager le pays sur la voie de nouvelles élections. = English: Last month a presidential commission recommended the prior CEP's resignation as part of a package of measures to move the country towards new elections.	In the manner that Paris is known as the fashion capital of the contemporary world, Constantinople was regarded as the fashion capital of feudal Europe.	In the same way that Paris is known as the capital of contemporary fashion, Constantinople was considered the capital of the feudal Europe.
French: Les montagnes de la péninsule se fondent dans le plateau, puis réapparaissent pour former la chaîne montagneuse d'Ellsworth, longue de 360 km et traversée par le glacier du Minnesota. = English: The mountains of the Peninsula here merge into the plateau, then re-emerge to form the 360 km chain of the Ellsworth Mountains, bisected by the Minnesota Glacier.	Perry stated that he would "return to Texas to assess the results of tonight's caucus, determine whether there is a path forward for myself in this race", but later said that he would remain in the race and compete in the January 21 South Carolina primary.	Perry said he "will be returning to Texas to evaluate the results of tonight's caucus, and determine if there is a path forward for me in this race", but later said he would remain in the race and participate in the January 21 primary in South Carolina.
French: Pour mieux représenter le flux de trafic, des relations ont été établies entre les trois principales caractéristiques : (1) le débit, (2) la densité et (3) la vitesse. = English: To better represent traffic flow, relationships have been established between the three main characteristics: (1) flow, (2) density, and (3) velocity.	Naturalists and philosophers focused on classical texts and, in particular, on the Bible in Latin.	Naturalists and philosophers have focused on ancient texts, and especially on the Bible in Latin.
French: C'est encore fabriqué aujourd'hui, mais ce qui importe est que son format d'image est hérité du format du capteur photographique des caméras numériques. = English: It is still produced today, but more importantly its aspect ratio has been inherited by digital camera image sensor formats.	He was greeted by Singapore's Deputy Prime Minister Wong Kan Seng and discussed trade and terrorism issues with the Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.	He was welcomed by Wong Kan Seng, the Singapore's vice-premier minister, and discussed trade and terrorism with Lee Hsien Loong, the Singapore's prime minister.
French: Pour les Springboks, ce fut la fin d'une série de cinq défaites. = English: For the Springboks, it ended a five-match losing streak.	The disease is carried by pigs, which then migrates to humans through mosquitos.	Pigs are carriers of the disease, which is then transmitted to humans by mosquitoes.
French: Les requins existent, mais ils attaquent rarement les humains. La plupart d'entre eux ont peur des humains et s'en écarteraient. = English: Sharks do exist, however they rarely attack humans. Most sharks are scared of humans and would swim away.	This seems sensible, because the Earth doesn't feel as if it's moving, does it?	It seems reasonable, because the Earth doesn't feel like it's moving, does it?
French: Il est presque impossible d’échanger de l’argent des Malouines en dehors des îles, alors changez-le avant de quitter les îles. = English: It is nearly impossible to exchange Falklands currency outside of the islands, so exchange money prior to leaving the islands.	Taiwan beginning start way back in 15th century where European sailors passing by record the island’s name as Ilha Formosa, or beautiful island.	The first information about Taiwan dates back to the 15th century, while European sailors passing by there mentioned it under the name Ilha Formosa, or “beautiful island”.
French: Si vous visitez un jardin strictement aménagé, le prélèvement de « spécimens » va également vous faire expulser sans discussion. = English: If visiting a formally arranged garden, collecting "specimens" is also going to get you ejected, without discussion.	The 802.11n standard operates on both the 2.4Ghz and 5.0Ghz frequencies.	802.11n operates on both 2.4 GHz and 5.0 GHz frequencies.
French: Au cours de son voyage, Iwasaki a eu des problèmes à de nombreuses occasions. = English: During his trip, Iwasaki ran into trouble on many occasions.	Blogs can also help improve student writing. While students often begin their blog experience with sloppy grammar and spelling, the presence of an audience generally changes that.	Blogs can also help students improve their writing skills. Even if students often try the blogging experience with neglected grammar and spelling, the fact of having a public audience usually makes the situation evolve.
French: Cependant, le conducteur a été grièvement blessé à la tête. = English: However, the driver sustained serious injuries to the head.	Backpacking by ski: This activity is also called backcountry ski, ski touring or ski hiking.	Ski touring: this activity is also called cross-country skiing, ski touring or ski mountaineering.
French: Chaque année, des dizaines de visiteurs sont blessés parce qu’ils n’ont pas gardé une distance suffisante. Ces animaux sont grands, sauvages et potentiellement dangereux, alors donnez-leur de l’espace. = English: Each year, dozens of visitors are injured because they didn't keep a proper distance. These animals are large, wild, and potentially dangerous, so give them their space.	To get the best views of Hong Kong, leave the island and head for the Kowloon waterfront opposite.	To admire the most beautiful panoramas of Hong Kong, leave the island and head to the Kowloon waterfront located in front.
French: Ensuite, Lakkha Singh a pris l'initiative de chanter les bhajans. = English: Then, Lakkha Singh took the lead in singing the bhajans.	In addition, be aware that odors attract bears and other wildlife, so avoid carrying or cooking odorous foods and keep a clean camp.	Also, be aware that smells attract bears and other wild animals, so avoid carrying or cooking smelly food and keep the camp clean.
French: On ne pense cependant pas qu'ils aient causé le moindre dégât à la navette. = English: However, they are not thought to have caused any damage to the shuttle.	Because the dinosaur feathers do not have a well-developed shaft, called a rachis, but do have other features of feathers — barbs and barbules — the researchers inferred the rachis was likely a later evolutionary development that these other features.	Given that dinosaur feathers do not have a fully developed shaft, called a rachis, but do show other features characteristic of feathers – barbs and barbules – the researchers concluded that the rachis was probably a later evolutionary development of these other features.
French: Selon Mick O'Flynn, responsable par intérim de la conservation du parc et du patrimoine au NPWS, les quatre tireurs désignés pour la première campagne d'abattage ont été dûment entraînés et formés aux consignes de sécurité. = English: According to Mick O'Flynn, the Acting Director Park Conservation and Heritage with the NPWS, the four shooters selected for the first shooting operation received comprehensive safety and training instruction.	New Kingdom ancient Egyptians marvelled at their predecessors monuments, which were then well over a thousand year old.	Ancient Egyptians of the New Kingdom were amazed by the monuments of their predecessors, who had then been around for more than a thousand years.
French: Il n'a pas pu prendre les médicaments nécessaires pour surmonter sa douleur, ceux-ci étant interdits au sein des Jeux. = English: He has been unable to take the drugs needed to overcome his pain as they are banned from the Games.	The amount of inner peace a person possesses correlates oppositely to the amount of tension in one’s body and spirit.	The degree of inner peace of a person is opposed to the degree of tension in his body and mind.
French: Si vous vous retrouvez à réinitialiser l’horloge pendant votre sommeil, il peut être placé de l’autre côté de la pièce, vous forçant à sortir du lit pour l’éteindre. = English: If you find yourself resetting the clock in your sleep, it can be placed on the other side of the room, forcing you to get out of bed to turn it off.	Mutations can have a variety of different effects depending on the type of mutation, the significance of the piece of genetic material affected and whether the cells affected are germ-line cells.	Mutations can have many different effects depending on the type of mutation, the importance of the affected part of the genetic material, and whether the affected cells are germ cells.
French: Le mois dernier, l'Iran a connu sa pire catastrophe aérienne depuis des années lorsqu'un avion de ligne se dirigeant vers l'Arménie s'est écrasé, tuant les 168 personnes à bord. = English: Last month Iran saw its worst air disaster in years when an airliner heading to Armenia crashed, killing the 168 on board.	A doctor who worked at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania will be charged with aggravated murder after her mother was found dead in the trunk of her car Wednesday, authorities in Ohio say.	A doctor practicing at the children's hospital in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, was charged with murder with aggravating circumstances after his mother was found dead in the trunk of his car Wednesday, according to Ohio authorities.
French: « Nous avons à présent des souris de 4 mois qui ne sont pas diabétiques alors qu'elles l'étaient auparavant », a-t-il ajouté. = English: "We now have 4-month-old mice that are non-diabetic that used to be diabetic," he added.	They are still trying to determine just how large the crash was and how the Earth will be affected.	"We are still trying to determine the extent of the accident and how the Earth will be affected."
French: D'autre part, la présence de glace et de neige est normale dans de nombreux pays, et la circulation est pratiquement ininterrompue toute l'année. = English: On the other hand, icy and snowy conditions are normal in many countries, and traffic goes on mostly uninterrupted all year round.	Prides are made up of one to three related adult males, along with as many as thirty females and cubs.	Herds are made up of one to three adult related males, as well as about thirty females and cubs.
French: Sundarbans est une réserve naturelle depuis 1966, vous pourrez y trouver environ 400 tigres du Bengale royal et 30 000 cerfs tachetés. = English: Since 1966 the Sundarbans have been a wildlife sanctuary, and it is estimated that there are now 400 Royal Bengal tigers and about 30,000 spotted deer in the area.	In late 2017, Siminoff appeared on shopping television channel QVC.	In 2017, Siminoff appeared on QVC, a home shopping channel.
French: La Fédération américaine de gymnastique soutient la lettre du Comité olympique des États-Unis et accepte la nécessité absolue de la famille olympique de promouvoir un environnement sûr pour tous nos athlètes. = English: USA Gymnastics supports the United States Olympic Committee's letter and accepts the absolute need of the Olympic family to promote a safe environment for all of our athletes.	Soon, officers equipped with riot gear entered the yard and cornered the inmates with tear gas.	Soon, officers equipped with riot gear entered the courtyard and trapped the detainees with tear gas.
French: Les observatoires prémodernes sont généralement obsolètes aujourd’hui, et restent en place comme musées ou sites d’éducation. = English: Pre-modern observatories are usually obsolete today, and remain as museums, or sites of education.	The AI ​​system is now often used in the fields of economics, medicine, engineering and the military, as has been built in several home computer and video game software applications.	The AI system is now often used in the fields of economics, medicine, engineering and the military, as it has been implemented in several home computer and video games software.
French: Les observatoires prémodernes sont généralement obsolètes aujourd’hui, et restent en place comme musées ou sites d’éducation. = English: Pre-modern observatories are usually obsolete today, and remain as museums, or sites of education.	The city is in stark contrast to the rest of the country's cities, because it has more of an Arabic flair than of an African.	The city contrasts strongly with the rest of the country, as it has a more Arabic than African style.
French: Le gouverneur de Californie, Arnold Schwarzenegger, a promulgué une loi qui interdit la vente ou la location de jeux vidéo violents aux mineurs. = English: California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed into law a bill that bans the sale or rental of violent video games to minors.	Technology offers the solution with virtual field trips. Students can look at museum artifacts, visit an aquarium, or admire beautiful art while sitting with their class.	The solution is provided by technology in the form of virtual educational tours. Students can watch the ancient objects in a museum, visit an aquarium, or admire a beautiful work of art while remaining seated with their class.
French: Comme cette tactique n'a suscité qu'une timide réaction, l'Allemagne s'attendait à une réaction semblable face à sa guerre sous-marine sans limites. = English: Since there was limited response to this tactic, Germany expected a similar response to its unrestricted submarine warfare.	The "up bow" mark looks like a V and the "down bow mark" like a staple or a square missing its bottom side.	The "push" symbol looks like a V and the "take" symbol like a staple or a square with the bottom side missing.
French: Israël exige une présence militaire permanente dans la vallée pour une durée de dix années à compter de la signature d'un accord, tandis que l'Autorité palestinienne ne consent qu'à une durée de cinq ans. = English: Israel demands an ongoing military presence in the valley for ten years once an agreement is signed while the PA agrees to leave such presence only for five years.	As one example, American citizens in the Middle East might face different situations from Europeans or Arabs.	As an example, American citizens in the Middle East could face different situations than Europeans or Arabs.
French: Construite par les Égyptiens au cours du troisième millénaire avant J-C, la Grande Pyramide est l'une des nombreuses structures géantes érigées en l'honneur des pharaons décédés. = English: Built by the Egyptians in the third century BCE, the Great Pyramid is one of many large pyramid structures built to honor dead Pharaoh.	The presence of a true “invisible team” (Larson and LaFasto, 1989, p109) is also a unique component of a virtual team.	The presence of a real "invisible team" (Larson and LaFasto, 1989, p109) is also a unique element of a virtual team.
French: Vous pouvez voir les pyramides dans l'obscurité et vous pouvez les voir en silence avant le début du spectacle. = English: You can see the pyramids in the dark and you can see them in silence before the show begins.	For Australians, the idea of 'flat white' coffee is foreign. A short black is 'espresso', cappuccino comes heaped high with cream (not froth), and tea is served without milk.	For Australians, the idea of a "café crème" is foreign. A short black is an "espresso", the cappuccino is filled with cream (not foam) and the tea is served without milk.
French: La NHK a également fait savoir que la centrale nucléaire de Kashiwazaki Kariwa, dans la préfecture de Niigata, fonctionnait normalement. = English: NHK also reported that the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear power plant in Niigata prefecture was operating normally.	Be firm in turning down men, and don't be afraid to stand your ground (cultural differences or not, it doesn't make it ok!).	Be firm in refusing advances from men, and don't be afraid to stand your ground (cultural differences or not, it doesn't mean that it's acceptable!)
French: Murray a perdu le premier set au tie break après que les deux hommes ont gardé leur service pendant tout le set. = English: Murray lost the first set in a tie break after both men held each and every serve in the set.	Eventually, after thousands or even millions of years, the two populations will look so different that they can't be called the same species.	Finally, after thousands or even millions of years, the two populations will appear so different that they will no longer be considered as belonging to the same species.
French: Tous les navires furent coulés, à l’exception d’un croiseur britannique. Près de 200 Américains et Allemands perdirent la vie. = English: All the ships were sunk, except for one British cruiser. Nearly 200 American and German lives were lost.	Germany was a common enemy in World War 2, leading to cooperation between the USSR and USA. With the end of the war the clashes of system, process and culture led to the countries falling out.	Germany was a common enemy during the Second World War, which led to cooperation between the USSR and the United States. At the end of the war, deep conflicts between their different systems, methods and cultures ended the understanding between these two countries.
French: Le match s'est joué à un point, 21 à 20, mettant fin à la série de 15 victoires des All Blacks. = English: The final score was a one-point victory, 21 to 20, ending the All Blacks' 15 game winning streak.	The Great Pyramid at Giza is the only one of the seven wonders that is still standing today.	The Great Pyramid of Giza is the only one of the Seven Wonders that still exists today.
French: Le Moyen Âge Central a été précédé par le Haut Moyen Âge et suivi par le Bas Moyen Âge, qui par convention se termine vers 1500. = English: The High Middle Ages were preceded by the Early Middle Ages and followed by the Late Middle Ages, which by convention ends around 1500.	If an iron isn't available, or if you don't fancy wearing ironed socks, then you can try using a hairdryer, if available.	If you don't have a iron or if you don't want to wear ironed socks, you can try using a hairdryer, if you find one.
French: Il a d'abord été hospitalisé à l'hôpital James Paget de Great Yarmouth. = English: He was initially hospitalised in the James Paget Hospital in Great Yarmouth.	It states that the most effective place for the main subject is at the intersection of lines dividing the image into thirds vertically and horizontally (see example).	He indicates that the most effective place for the main subject is at the intersection of the lines dividing the image into thirds vertically and horizontally (see example).
French: Certains atomes ont un noyau instable, de sorte qu'ils ont tendance à se briser avec peu ou pas de pression. = English: Some atoms have unstable nuclei which means that they tend to break apart with little or no nudging.	Subcultures bring together like-minded individuals who feel neglected by societal standards and allow them to develop a sense of identity.	Subcultures are groups of people who feel neglected by societal norms and share the same ideas which allows them to develop a sense of identity.
French: La visibilité peut également être limitée par des chutes de neige ou de la poudrerie ou par la condensation ou la glace sur les vitres des véhicules. = English: Visibility may also be restricted by falling or blowing snow or by condensation or ice on vehicle windows.	The feathers' structure suggests that they were not used in flight but rather for temperature regulation or display. The researchers suggested that, even though this is the tail of a young dinosaur, the sample shows adult plumage and not a chick's down.	The structure of the feathers suggests that they were not used for flight but rather for temperature regulation or display. Researchers have suggested that, even if it is the tail of a young dinosaur, the sample shows adult plumage and not down of a chick.
French: Elle est plus fine au niveau des mers et plus épaisse sous les continents. = English: It is thinner under the maria and thicker under the highlands.	The outbreak has prompted the Indian government to undertake such measures as deployment of pig catchers in seriously affected areas, distributing thousands of mosquito curtains and spraying pesticides.	The epidemic prompted the Indian government to take measures such as the deployment of pig collectors in the most severely affected areas, the distribution of thousands of mosquito nets and the spraying of pesticides.
French: La visibilité peut également être limitée par des chutes de neige ou de la poudrerie ou par la condensation ou la glace sur les vitres des véhicules. = English: Visibility may also be restricted by falling or blowing snow or by condensation or ice on vehicle windows.	Singer Sanju Sharma started the evening, followed by Jai Shankar Choudhary. esented the chhappan bhog bhajan as well. Singer, Raju Khandelwal was accompanying him.	Singer Sanju Sharma started the evening, followed by Jai Shankar Choudhary. Lakkha Singh also presented the bhajan of Chhappan Bhog. Singer Raju Khandelwal accompanied him.
French: Enfin, après des milliers ou même des millions d'années, les deux populations paraîtront tellement différentes qu'elles ne pourront plus être considérées comme appartenant à la même espèce. = English: Eventually, after thousands or even millions of years, the two populations will look so different that they can't be called the same species.	The same month saw another airliner overrun a runway at Mashhad and strike a wall, killing seventeen.	The same month, another passenger plane made an emergency landing in Mashhad and crashed into a wall, killing seventeen people.
French: Montevideo est situé en zone subtropicale et les températures estivales dépassant les 30 °C sont courantes. = English: Montevideo is in the subtropics; in the summer months, temperatures above +30°C are common.	Edgar Veguilla received arm and jaw wounds while Kristoffer Schneider was left requiring reconstructive surgery for his face.	Edgar Veguilla was injured in the arm and jaw, while Kristoffer Schneider had to undergo reconstructive surgery for his face.
French: Dans la plupart des cas, les décès sont dus à l'épuisement qui résulte d'une tentative de nager à contre-courant, ce qui peut être impossible. = English: Most deaths happen as result of fatigue trying to swim back against the current, which may be impossible.	Saltwater Crocodiles do not actively live in the ocean, their primary habitat is in river estuaries north from Rockhampton.	Saltwater crocodiles do not actively live in the ocean, their main habitat is in the estuaries of rivers north of Rockhampton.
French: Bien que ce stéréotype soit souvent inexact, la meilleure façon de s'entendre à Paris reste de se comporter au mieux, d'agir comme quelqu'un de bien élevé. Cela facilitera considérablement vos déplacements. = English: While this is often only an inaccurate stereotype, the best way to get along in Paris still is to be on your best behavior, acting like someone who is "bien élevé" (well brought up). It will make getting about considerably easier.	Her other race, the Giant Slalom, saw her finish in tenth in the women's sitting group with a combined run time of 4:41.30, 2:11.60 minutes slower than first place finisher Austrian Claudia Loesch and 1:09.02 minutes slower than the ninth place finisher Gyöngyi Dani of Hungary.	Her other race, the giant slalom, allowed her to finish tenth in the sitting women's group with a combined time of 4:41.30, or 2:11.60 minutes less than the Austrian Claudia Loesch, who came first, and 1:09.02 minutes less than the Hungarian Gyöngyi Dani, who came ninth.
French: Avant les Simpsons, Simon avait travaillé sur plusieurs séries, occupant divers postes. = English: Before The Simpsons Simon had worked on several shows in various positions.	The best indication of internal poisoning may be the presence of an open container of medication or toxic household chemicals.	The best indicator of internal poisoning is probably the presence of an open container of toxic household chemicals or medicines.
French: Le romantisme présentait un important élément de déterminisme culturel, tiré d'écrivains tels que Goethe, Fichte et Schlegel. = English: Romanticism had a large element of cultural determinism, drawn from writers such as Goethe, Fichte, and Schlegel.	The modern city of Casablanca was founded by Berber fishermen in the 10th century BCE, and was used by the Phoenicians, Romans, and the Merenids as a strategic port called Anfa.	The modern city of Casablanca was founded by Berber fishermen in the 10th century BC, and was used by the Phoenicians, Romans, and Merinids as a strategic port called Anfa.
French: Ces théories suggèrent que les gens ont certains besoins et/ou désirs qui ont été intériorisés au fur et à mesure de leur maturation vers l'âge adulte. = English: These theories suggest that people have certain needs and/or desires which have been internalized as they mature to adulthood.	As a result, the performers smoke cannabis joints on stage, and the theatre itself is encouraging the audience to join in.	As a result, artists smoke cannabis joints on stage, and the theatre itself encourages the audience to join them.
French: Cela nous a apporté le train, la voiture et de nombreux autres moyens de transport. = English: It has brought us the train, the car, and many other transportation devices.	Angel (2006), explains the Continuum approach as a method being used to help organizations reach a higher level of performance.	Angel (2006) presents the Continuum approach as a method used to help organizations achieve better results.
French: Au début de cette semaine, l'accident d'un hélicoptère de la police a tué trois personnes et en a blessé trois autres. = English: Earlier this week, a police helicopter crash killed three people and wounded three more.	Its status declined during the twelfth century mainly due to the fact that Crusaders had returned bearing gifts such as silks and spices that were valued more than what Byzantine markets offered.	His status declined during the twelfth century, mainly because the Crusaders returned laden with presents such as silk and spices, with which the Byzantine markets could not compete.
French: Les porcs sont porteurs de la maladie, qui est ensuite transmise à l'homme par les moustiques. = English: The disease is carried by pigs, which then migrates to humans through mosquitos.	This is common practice elsewhere in the UK but Scottish justice works differently and courts have viewed publication of photos as potentially prejudicial.	This is a common practice elsewhere in the UK, but Scottish courts operate differently and the courts have considered that the publication of photos is potentially harmful.
French: Bachmann, qui avait gagné le « vote de paille » d’Âmes en août, décida de mettre un terme à sa campagne. = English: Bachmann, who won the Ames Straw Poll in August, decided to end her campaign.	The moisture on your hands will react with the outer layers, which will feel funny and form a sort of shell.	The moisture on your hands will react with the outer layers, which will induce an odd sensation and produce a sort of shell.
French: Il s'agit du lieu que les colons Britannique ont investit. Ainsi, cela me semble être un bon point de départ, si vous recherchez des preuves du passé colonial de cette région. = English: This is the place the British colonisers took as their own and so if you are looking for evidence of the territory's colonial past, this is a good place to start.	While no one knows for certain who wrote it, it is known that early in its life, the large parchment document (it measures 29¾ inches by 24½ inches) was rolled up for storage.	Although no one knows for sure who wrote it, it is known that at an early stage of its existence, the great parchment (which measures approximately 29 and three quarter inches by 24 inches) was stored rolled up.
French: Dès que vous sortez du courant, le retour à la nage n'est pas plus difficile que d'habitude. = English: As soon as you get out of the current, swimming back is no more difficult than normally.	Some cruises feature Berlin, Germany in the brochures. As you can see from the map above Berlin is no where near the sea and a visit to the city is not included in the price of the cruise.	The city of Berlin, in Germany, is mentioned in some brochures for cruises. As you can see by consulting the map above, Berlin is not at all located near the coast and no visit to this city is included in the price of the cruise.
French: Au même moment, la marine allemande, utilisant principalement des U-Boots, tentait d'arrêter ce trafic. = English: At the same time, the German navy, using mainly U-boats, was trying to stop this traffic.	This can be easily done by using a relatively quiet alarm clock to bring you to consciousness without fully waking you.	This can be done easily by using a relatively quiet alarm, so that you are woken up without being fully woken up.
French: Il peut y avoir plus de maria sur le côté proche parce que la croûte est plus fine. Il était plus facile pour la lave de remonter à la surface. = English: There may be more maria on the near side because the crust is thinner. It was easier for lava to rise up to the surface.	The ministry responded by calling Apple's postponement of the report "truly regrettable."	The ministry reacted by calling the postponement of the report by Apple "regrettable".
French: Pourtant, 80 % de nos marchandises étaient taxées par des droits de douane dans les pays d’Amérique centrale. Nous vous soignons. = English: Yet eighty percent of our goods were taxed through tariffs in Central American countries. we treat you.	Adekoya has since been in Edinburgh Sheriff Court charged with murdering her son.	Adekoya has since been charged with the murder of her son by the Sheriff Court of Edinburgh.
French: Après avoir vu les horreurs et les atrocités de la guerre pendant la Première Guerre mondiale, les nations ont souhaité éviter qu’une telle situation ne se reproduise à l’avenir. = English: After seeing the horrors and atrocities of war during World War I, nations desired to avoid such a situation again in the future.	Any amendments or requests though should be coursed through the travel agent first and not directly with the hotel.	Any modification or request must however be addressed to the travel agency first and not directly to the hotel.
French: De manière générale, il est inutile de chercher à obtenir des réductions pour les sièges en classe affaires ou en première classe sur les vols directs de A à B. = English: Generally speaking, there is no point in even looking for discounts for business or first-class seats on direct flights from A to B.	Also blogging "forces students to become more savvy about the world around them." The need to feed the interest of the audience inspires students to be clever and interesting (Toto, 2004).	In addition, blogging "obliges students to better know the world around them". The need to attract public interest encourages students to be smart and interesting (Toto, 2004).
French: Les îles Shetland du Sud, découvertes en 1819, sont revendiquées par plusieurs nations et possèdent le plus grand nombre de stations de recherche et seize d'entre elles sont actives en 2020. = English: South Shetland Islands, discovered in 1819, are claimed by several nations and have the most bases, with sixteen active in 2020.	According to Mick O'Flynn, the Acting Director Park Conservation and Heritage with the NPWS, the four shooters selected for the first shooting operation received comprehensive safety and training instruction.	Mick O'Flynn, acting head of conservation and heritage at the NPWS, said the four shooters selected for the first cull had been properly trained and instructed in safety procedures.
French: Pour admirer les plus beaux panoramas de Hong Kong, quittez l’île et rejoignez le front de mer de Kowloon situé en face. = English: To get the best views of Hong Kong, leave the island and head for the Kowloon waterfront opposite.	On the outlying islands credit cards will probably not be accepted, although British and United States currency may be taken; check with the owners in advance to determine what is an acceptable payment method.	On the neighbouring islands, credit cards are unlikely to be accepted, even if British and US currencies may be. Talk to the owners in advance to agree on a payment method.
French: Peu après le début des hostilités, la Grande-Bretagne a mis en place un blocus naval contre l’Allemagne. = English: Soon after the outbreak of hostilities, Britain initiated a naval blockade of Germany.	An example is visiting, photographing, and learning about organgatuangs in Borneo.	For example, one can go and see, photograph and discover the orang-utans of Borneo.
French: Le tronçon entre Point Marion et Fairmont présente les conditions de conduite les plus difficiles sur l’autoroute Buffalo-Pittsburgh, passant fréquemment par des terrains isolés de l’arrière-pays. = English: The stretch between Point Marion and Fairmont presents the most challenging driving conditions on the Buffalo-Pittsburgh Highway, passing frequently through isolated backwoods terrain.	As knowledge of Greek declined, the West found itself cut off from its Greek philosophical and scientific roots.	With the decline of Greek knowledge, the West was cut off from its Greek philosophical and scientific roots.
French: Environ 60 cas de surchauffe d’iPods défectueux ont été signalés, provoquant au total six incendies et laissant quatre personnes avec des brûlures mineures. = English: Around 60 cases of malfunctioning iPods overheating have been reported, causing a total of six fires and leaving four people with minor burns.	Feral children may have experienced severe child abuse or trauma before being abandoned or running away.	Wild children may have suffered serious abuse or trauma before being abandoned or running away.
French: Sur les îles avoisinantes, les cartes de crédit ne seront probablement pas acceptées, même s’il se peut que les devises britannique et américaine le soient. Parlez-en à l’avance avec les propriétaires afin de vous mettre d’accord sur une méthode de paiement. = English: On the outlying islands credit cards will probably not be accepted, although British and United States currency may be taken; check with the owners in advance to determine what is an acceptable payment method.	The satellite was sent into space by a rocket. Scientists use telescopes in space because the Earth’s atmosphere distorts some of our light and view.	The satellite was sent into space by a rocket. Scientists use telescopes in space because the Earth's atmosphere distorts some of our light and vision.
French: Il s'agit de l'un des parcs d'attraction les plus connus en Afrique du Sud et considéré comme le fleuron des parcs Nationaux sud-africains (SANParks). = English: It is one of the main attractions of South Africa and it is considered the flagship of South African National Parks (SANParks).	Its renown for being an epicenter of luxury began in about 400 A.D. and lasted up until about 1100 A.D.	Its reputation as the epicenter of luxury began around 400 AD and lasted until about 1100 AD.
French: Les équipes virtuelles sont soumises aux mêmes standards d'excellence que les équipes conventionnelles, mais il existe de subtiles différences. = English: Virtual teams are held to the same standards of excellence as conventional teams, but there are subtle differences.	Authorities speculate that this indicates that containers holding uranium fuel at the site may have ruptured and are leaking.	Authorities assume that this means that the fuel tanks on the site would have cracks and leaks.
French: En 1994, ce conflit a débouché sur la création de la république autoproclamée de Transnistrie en Moldavie orientale, dotée de son propre gouvernement et de sa propre monnaie, mais reconnue par aucun pays membre des Nations Unies. = English: In 1994, this conflict led to the creation of the self-proclaimed Transnistria Republic in eastern Moldova, which has its own government and currency but is not recognised by any UN member country.	Since the foundation of Asunción in 1537, Paraguay has managed to keep a lot of its indigenous character and identity.	Since the foundation of Asunción in 1537, Paraguay has managed to retain a large part of its indigenous character and identity.
French: Chambers avait poursuivi Dieu en justice pour « mise à mort généralisée, destruction et terreur infligées à des millions et des millions d'habitants de la Terre. » = English: Chambers had sued God for "widespread death, destruction and terrorization of millions upon millions of the Earth's inhabitants."	The fatalities were Nicholas Alden, 25, and Zachary Cuddeback, 21. Cuddeback had been the driver.	The victims are Nicholas Alden, 25, and Zachary Cuddeback, 21. Cuddeback was the driver.
French: Au fil du temps, à mesure que la nouvelle population s'adapte à son nouvel environnement, elle commence à ressembler de moins en moins à l'autre population. = English: Over time, as the new population begins to adapt to their new environment, they start to look less and less like the other population.	For example, each year students from Bennet School in North Carolina design a website about their trip to the State Capital, each year the website gets remodeled, but old versions are kept online to serve as a scrapbook.	For example, students from the Bennet School in North Carolina design a website each year about their visit to the state capital. Each year, the website is updated, but the old versions are kept online as an album.
French: Les satellites, qui pesaient tous les deux plus de 450 kg et se déplaçaient à environ 28000 km/h, sont entrés en collision à 790 km au-dessus de la Terre. = English: The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	They did two experiments marking either the DNA in the phage with a radioactive phosphorus or the protein of the phage with radioactive sulfur.	They conducted two experiments to label either the phage DNA with radioactive phosphorus, or the phage protein with radioactive sulfur.
French: Le bouddhisme tibétain est basé sur les enseignements de Bouddha, mais a été enrichi par le chemin de l'amour mahayana et par de nombreuses techniques du yoga indien. = English: The Tibetan Buddhism is based on the teachings of Buddha, but were extended by the mahayana path of love and by a lot of techniques from Indian Yoga.	Pronunciation is relatively easy in Italian since most words are pronounced exactly how they are written	The pronunciation is relatively easy in Italian, because most of the words are pronounced exactly as they are written
French: Les 25 feuilles Dunlap dont on connaît encore l'existence sont les plus anciennes copies du document. La copie manuscrite originale n'a pas survécu. = English: The 25 Dunlap broadsides still known to exist are the oldest surviving copies of the document. The original handwritten copy has not survived.	Entertainment news website TMZ understands the photographer stopped his vehicle on the other side of Sepulveda Boulevard and attempted to take pictures of the police stop before crossing the road and continuing, prompting the California Highway Patrol police officer conducting the traffic stop to order him back across, twice.	The information site TMZ claims that the photographer stopped his vehicle on the other side of the Sepulveda Boulevard and tried to take pictures of the police stop before crossing the road and continuing, prompting the California Highway Patrol officer to order him to go back, twice.
French: Les blogues peuvent également aider les étudiants à améliorer leurs compétences en rédaction. Même si les étudiants tentent souvent l'expérience du blogue avec une grammaire et une orthographe négligées, le fait d'avoir un public fait généralement évoluer la situation. = English: Blogs can also help improve student writing. While students often begin their blog experience with sloppy grammar and spelling, the presence of an audience generally changes that.	The patient had been to Nigeria, where some cases of the Ebola virus have occurred.	The patient had traveled to Nigeria, where some cases of Ebola virus had occurred.
French: Les Babyloniens construisirent pour chacun de leurs dieux un temple principal qui était considéré comme la demeure du dieu. = English: The Babylonians built each of their gods a primary temple that was considered the home of the god.	No immediate reports of damage have been received by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) and its National Earthquake Information Center.	The USGS (United States Geological Survey) and its national information center on earthquakes did not receive immediate reports of damage.
French: La composition de ces cristaux correspond à ce qui est trouvé dans l’urine des animaux domestiques affectés lorsqu’on compare par spectroscopie infrarouge (IRTF). = English: The composition of these crystals matches those found in the urine of affected pets when compared by infrared spectroscopy (FTIR).	The major religion in Moldova is Orthodox Christian.	The main religion in Moldova is Orthodox Christianity.
French: « Nous avons à présent des souris de 4 mois qui ne sont pas diabétiques alors qu'elles l'étaient auparavant », a-t-il ajouté. = English: "We now have 4-month-old mice that are non-diabetic that used to be diabetic," he added.	Over four million people went to Rome to attend the funeral.	More than 4 million people went to Rome for the funeral.
French: Parmi les autres sujets à l’ordre du jour à Bali figurent la sauvegarde des dernières forêts du monde et le partage des technologies pour aider les pays en développement à poursuivre leur croissance de manière moins polluante. = English: Other subjects on the agenda in Bali include saving the world's remaining forests, and sharing technologies to help developing nations grow in less-polluting ways.	However, these plans were rendered obsolete nearly overnight, when over 800,000 soldiers from the Soviet's Union Red Army entered and created the Belarussian and Ukrainian fronts after invading the eastern regions of Poland in violation of the Riga Peace Treaty, the Soviet-Polish Non-Aggression Pact, and other international treaties, both bilateral and multilateral.	But these plans became obsolete almost overnight, when more than 800,000 Soviet Red Army soldiers arrived and created the Belarusian and Ukrainian fronts after invading eastern Poland, violating the Riga Peace Treaty, the Soviet-Polish non-aggression pact, as well as other bilateral and multilateral treaties.
French: Participer pratiquement à une excursion est également un excellent moyen de réfléchir à un voyage et de partager ses expériences avec des générations futures. = English: Sharing a field trip virtually is also a great way to reflect a on a trip and share experiences with future classes.	Schneider testified via videolink from a USAF base in his homeland.	Schneider testified via video link from an Air Force base in his country.
French: Tous les noms, suivis du mot Sie qui signifie vous, commencent toujours par une majuscule, même au milieu d’une phrase. = English: All nouns, alongside the word Sie for you, always begin with a capital letter, even in the middle of a sentence.	Congress lacked any power to impose taxes, and, because there was no national executive or judiciary, it relied on state authorities, who were often uncooperative, to enforce all its acts.	The Congress had no power to impose taxes, and as there was no national executive or judicial authority, it had to rely on the often uncooperative state authorities to enforce all its acts.
French: Les dépenses de guerre de l'impérialisme américain dans la conquête des Philippines ont été payées par le peuple philippin lui-même. = English: The war expenditures of U.S. imperialism in the conquest of the Philippines were paid for by the Filipino people themselves.	The Olympic gold medalist was due to swim in the 100m and 200m freestyle and in three relays at the Commonwealth Games, but due to his complaints his fitness has been in doubt.	The Olympic gold medalist was to swim the 100 m and 200 m freestyle and three relays at the Commonwealth Games, but because of his complaints, his physical condition was called into question.
French: L’italien est également la langue de tous les jours utilisée par la plupart des personnes qui travaillent dans l’état, tandis que le latin est souvent utilisé dans les cérémonies religieuses. = English: Italian is also the everyday language used by most of those who work in the state while Latin is often used in religious ceremonies.	The rock band was due to tour the United States and Canada until September 16.	The rock group was supposed to tour the United States and Canada until September 16.
French: Les scientifiques ont pu conclure que la matière noire affecte les autres matières noires de la même manière que la matière normale. = English: The scientists were able to conclude that the dark matter affect other dark matter in the same way regular matter does.	We call this process speciation, which just means the formation of new species. Speciation is an unavoidable consequence and a very important part of evolution.	We call this process "speciation", which simply means the formation of new species. Speciation is an inevitable consequence and an important part of evolution.
French: Schneider a témoigné par liaison vidéo depuis une base de l’USAF dans son pays. = English: Schneider testified via videolink from a USAF base in his homeland.	In the churchyard, there are interesting marble sculptures of doves over some tombs.	In the cemetery, there are interesting marble sculptures of doves on some tombs.
French: Si vous ne vous rendez à terre qu'avec des excursions de croisière, vous n'aurez pas besoin d'un visa distinct (à partir de 2009). = English: If you only go ashore using shipboard excursions you will not need a separate visa (as of 2009).	Others are alleged to have been brought up by animals; some are said to have lived in the wild on their own.	Others would have been raised by animals; some would have lived alone in the wild.
French: Comme pour tous les parcs nationaux sud-africains, il existe des droits d’entrée et de conservation quotidiens pour le parc. = English: As with all South African National Parks, there are daily conservation and entry fees for the park.	Israel demands an ongoing military presence in the valley for ten years once an agreement is signed while the PA agrees to leave such presence only for five years.	Israel demands a permanent military presence in the valley for a period of ten years from the date of signature of an agreement, while the Palestinian Authority is willing to accept only a period of five years.
French: La ville est également le point de départ pour l'ascension du volcan Nyiragongo ainsi que pour des treks de pistage des gorilles des montagnes parmi les moins chers d'Afrique. = English: The city is also the base to climb the Nyiragongo volcano along with some of the cheapest Mountain Gorilla tracking in Africa.	Goma is a tourist city of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the extreme east near Rwanda.	Goma is a tourist city located in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, near Rwanda.
French: L'histoire présentée dans l'opéra français, par Camille Saint-Saens, est celle d'un artiste « dont la vie est dictée par son amour pour la drogue et pour le Japon ». = English: The story presented in the French opera, by Camille Saint-Saens, is of an artist "whose life is dictated by a love for drugs and Japan."	Lakkha Singh presented the chhappan bhog bhajan as well. Singer, Raju Khandelwal was accompanying him.	As for Lakkha Singh, he also presented the chhappan bhog bhajan, while being accompanied by the singer Raju Khandelwal.
French: Les plantes revêtent leur plus belle apparence lorsqu'elles se trouvent dans un environnement naturel, alors résistez à la tentation d'en retirer ne serait-ce qu'« une seule ». = English: Plants look their best when in a natural environment, so resist the temptation to remove even "just one" specimen.	There, they found the body of Saroja Balasubramanian, 53, covered with blood-stained blankets.	There, they found the body of Saroja Balasubramanian, 53, covered in bloodstained blankets.
French: Les enquêteurs ont découvert que des cristaux s'étaient formés dans l'urine des chats en raison de la présence de ces substances supplémentaires, la mélamine et l'acide cyanurique. = English: The researchers observed crystals formed in cat urine by the addition of melamine and cyanuric acid.	Police said they suspect an alleged Daesh (ISIL) militant of responsibility for the attack.	The police said they suspected a suspected militant of Daesh (IS) as the suspect behind this attack.
French: Israël exige une présence militaire permanente dans la vallée pour une durée de dix années à compter de la signature d'un accord, tandis que l'Autorité palestinienne ne consent qu'à une durée de cinq ans. = English: Israel demands an ongoing military presence in the valley for ten years once an agreement is signed while the PA agrees to leave such presence only for five years.	Traffic Flow is the study of the movement of individual drivers and vehicles between two points and the interactions they make with one another.	Traffic flow is the study of the movements of drivers and private vehicles between two points, and the interactions they exert on each other.
French: L'équipe nationale italienne de football est, avec l'équipe nationale allemande, la deuxième équipe la plus titrée du monde et elle a remporté la Coupe du monde de la FIFA en 2006. = English: Italy's national football, along with German national football team is the second most successful team in the world and were the FIFA World Cup champions in 2006.	Most deaths happen as result of fatigue trying to swim back against the current, which may be impossible.	In most cases, deaths are due to exhaustion resulting from a failed attempt to swim against the current, which can be impossible.
French: Le National Hurricane Center (NHC) affirme qu'à ce stade, Jerry ne représente aucune menace pour les terres. = English: The National Hurricane Center (NHC) says that at this point Jerry poses no threat to land.	Siminoff said sales boosted after his 2013 appearance in a Shark Tank episode where the show panel declined funding the startup.	Mr. Siminoff said sales have increased since his appearance in 2013 on an episode of Shark Tank where the show's panel turned down his start-up's funding request.
French: Les troupes de lions agissent comme des meutes de loups ou de chiens, des animaux étonnamment semblables aux lions (mais pas aux autres grands félins) dans leur comportement, et aussi très mortels pour leurs proies. = English: Lion prides act much like packs of wolves or dogs, animals surprisingly similar to lions (but not other big cats) in behavior, and also very deadly to their prey.	Europe is a continent that is relatively small but with many independent countries. Under normal circumstances, travelling through multiple countries would mean having to go through visa applications and passport control multiple times.	Europe is a relatively small continent, but with many independent countries. In classical circumstances, traveling across several countries therefore involves having to make several visa requests and undergo several passport checks.
French: Certains animaux, tels que les éléphants et les girafes, ont tendance à s’approcher de près des voitures et l’équipement standard permet de bien les observer. = English: Some animals, such as elephants and giraffes, tend to approach closely to cars and standard equipment will allow good viewing.	Prior to the arrival of troops, Haiti had not encountered problems related to the disease since the 1800s.	Before the arrival of troops, Haiti had not encountered any problems related to disease since the 1800s.
French: Pendant la nuit, entre 150 et 200 exemplaires ont été faits, aujourd’hui connus sous le nom de « Dunlap Broadsides ». = English: Through the night between 150 and 200 copies were made, now known as "Dunlap broadsides".	Goats seem to have been first domesticated roughly 10,000 years ago in the Zagros Mountains of Iran.	It seems that goats were first domesticated about 10 000 years ago in the Zagros Mountains in Iran.
French: Le 6 octobre 1789, le roi Louis XVI, la reine Marie-Antoinette, leurs deux jeunes enfants (Marie-Thérèse, 11 ans, et Louis-Charles, 4 ans) et la sœur du roi, madame Élisabeth, tous terrifiés, sont contraints de rentrer à Paris depuis Versailles par une foule de vendeuses. = English: The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	This became common practice, but the iron caused more wear on the wooden wheels of the wagons.	This became a common practice, but the iron caused more wear on the wooden wheels of the wagons.
French: La grande majorité du développement urbain de l’île de Hong Kong est concentrée sur les terre-pleins de la rive nord. = English: The great majority of Hong Kong Island's urban development is densely packed on reclaimed land along the northern shore.	He was reportedly aged in his 20s. In a statement, Bieber said "[w]hile I was not present nor directly involved with this tragic accident, my thoughts and prayers are with the family of the victim."	According to some sources, he is in his twenties. In a statement, Bieber said, "I was not present nor directly involved in this tragic accident, but my thoughts and prayers are with the victim's family."
French: Pour admirer les plus beaux panoramas de Hong Kong, quittez l’île et rejoignez le front de mer de Kowloon situé en face. = English: To get the best views of Hong Kong, leave the island and head for the Kowloon waterfront opposite.	The effect the team was looking for would be caused by tidal forces between the galaxy's dark matter and the Milky Way's dark matter.	The effect that the team was looking for would be caused by tidal forces between the dark matter of the galaxy and the dark matter of the Milky Way.
French: Dans les régions intérieures du nord de l'Inde et du Pakistan, le yaourt est couramment utilisé dans les currys ; dans le sud de l'Inde et certaines autres régions côtières du sous-continent, le lait de coco est couramment utilisé. = English: In inland regions of Northern India and Pakistan, yogurt is commonly used in curries; in Southern India and some other coastal regions of the subcontinent, coconut milk is commonly used.	Be careful not to allow fabric to become too hot (which can cause shrinkage, or in extreme cases, scorch).	Avoid overheating the fabric (which can cause it to shrink or in extreme cases, burn it).
French: Comme il n'y avait pas de grandes forêts en terre de Canaan, le bois était extrêmement cher. = English: There were no large forests in the land of Canaan, so wood was extremely expensive.	The find also grants insight into the evolution of feathers in birds.	This discovery also helps to better understand the evolution of feathers in birds.
French: Plusieurs personnes ont vérifié la découverte à l'aide de différents matériels et logiciels au début du mois de février, et elle a été annoncée mardi. = English: Several people verified the discovery using different hardware and software by the beginning of February and it was announced on Tuesday.	The Kruger National Park (KNP) lies in the north-east of South Africa and runs along the border of Mozambique in the east, Zimbabwe in the north, and the southern border is the Crocodile River.	Kruger National Park (KNP) is located in the northeast of South Africa and borders Mozambique to the east, Zimbabwe to the north and the southern border is the Crocodile River.
French: Edgar Veguilla a été blessé au bras et à la mâchoire tandis que Kristoffer Schneider a dû subir une chirurgie reconstructive pour son visage. = English: Edgar Veguilla received arm and jaw wounds while Kristoffer Schneider was left requiring reconstructive surgery for his face.	Although Winfrey was tearful in her farewell, she made it clear to her fans she will be back.	Despite the tears shed during her farewell, Oprah Winfrey clearly told her fans that she would be back.
French: L’épidémie a incité le gouvernement indien à prendre des mesures telles que le déploiement de collecteurs de porcs dans les zones gravement touchées, la distribution de milliers de moustiquaires et la pulvérisation de pesticides. = English: The outbreak has prompted the Indian government to undertake such measures as deployment of pig catchers in seriously affected areas, distributing thousands of mosquito curtains and spraying pesticides.	The pH level is indicated by the amount of Hydrogen (the H in pH) ions in the tested chemical.	The pH level is indicated by the amount of hydrogen ions (the H in pH) present in the chemical being tested.
French: Selon l'agence nucléaire japonaise, du césium et de l'iode radioactifs ont été identifiés à la centrale. = English: According to Japan's nuclear agency, radioactive caesium and iodine has been identified at the plant.	In just two weeks the Americans and Free French forces had liberated southern France and were turning towards Germany.	In just two weeks, the Americans and Free French Forces had liberated southern France and were heading towards Germany.
French: Consultez l'étiquette pour connaître les instructions de premiers secours spécifiques à ce poison. = English: Check the label for specific first aid instructions for that specific poison.	This new environment has different resources and different competitors, so the new population will need different features or adaptations to be a strong competitor than what they had needed before.	This new environment has different resources and competitors, so the new population will need new characteristics or adaptations to be a powerful competitor compared to what it needed before.
French: Selon Mick O'Flynn, responsable par intérim de la conservation du parc et du patrimoine au NPWS, les quatre tireurs désignés pour la première campagne d'abattage ont été dûment entraînés et formés aux consignes de sécurité. = English: According to Mick O'Flynn, the Acting Director Park Conservation and Heritage with the NPWS, the four shooters selected for the first shooting operation received comprehensive safety and training instruction.	Since 1966 the Sundarbans have been a wildlife sanctuary, and it is estimated that there are now 400 Royal Bengal tigers and about 30,000 spotted deer in the area.	The Sundarbans is a protected area since 1966, you can find about 400 royal Bengal tigers and 30,000 spotted deer.
French: Plusieurs habitants de Bichkek ont reproché les manifestants du sud d'être responsables de l'anarchie. = English: Several Bishkek residents blamed protesters from the south for the lawlessness.	The main local beer is 'Number One', it is not a complex beer, but pleasant and refreshing. The other local beer is called "Manta".	The main local beer is the "Number One", a rather ordinary beer, but tasty and refreshing. There is also another local beer, the "Manta".
French: L'Indonésie comptant 17 000 îles, la cuisine indonésienne est un terme générique qui couvre une grande variété de cuisines régionales présentes dans tout le pays. = English: With 17,000 islands to choose from, Indonesian food is an umbrella term covering a vast variety of regional cuisines found across the nation.	If a rider is thrown from a horse but has a foot caught in the stirrup, they could be dragged if the horse runs away. To minimize this risk, a number of safety precautions can be taken.	If a rider is thrown from a horse, but has one foot caught in the stirrup, he could be dragged if the horse bolts. To minimize this risk, a number of safety measures can be taken.
French: Bien que trois personnes aient été présentes dans la maison quand la voiture l'a percutée, aucune n'a été blessée. = English: Although three people were inside the house when the car impacted it, none of them were hurt.	Wagonways were built in England as early as the 16th Century.	Wagonways were built in England as early as the 16th century.
French: La plupart des télescopes de recherche modernes sont d'énormes infrastructures placées dans des régions éloignées où les conditions atmosphériques sont favorables. = English: Most modern research telescopes are enormous facilities in remote areas with favorable atmospheric conditions.	There are different ways of purifying water, some more effective against specific threats.	There are different methods of purifying water, some of which are more effective against specific threats.
French: Mme Kirchner a annoncé son intention de se présenter à la présidence au Théâtre argentin, le même endroit où elle a commencé sa campagne 2005 pour le Sénat en tant que membre de la délégation de la province de Buenos Aires. = English: Mrs. Kirchner announced her intention to run for president at the Argentine Theatre, the same location she used to start her 2005 campaign for the Senate as member of the Buenos Aires province delegation.	Around 60 cases of malfunctioning iPods overheating have been reported, causing a total of six fires and leaving four people with minor burns.	About 60 cases of overheating of defective iPods have been reported, causing six fires and leaving four people with minor burns.
French: Cela permettra aux joueurs de contrôler les actions et les mouvements dans les jeux vidéo en déplaçant l’appareil dans l’air. = English: This will allow players to control actions and movements in video games by moving the device through the air.	Vatican City uses Italian in its legislation and official communications.	The Vatican City State writes its legislation and official communications in Italian.
French: En 1624, la Dutch East India Company établit une base dans le sud-ouest de Taïwan, introduisant une transformation des pratiques autochtones de production de céréales et employant des ouvriers chinois pour travailler dans ses plantations de riz et de sucre. = English: In 1624,Dutch East India Company establishes a base in southwestern Taiwan, initiating a transformation in aboriginal grain production practices and employing Chinese laborers to work on its rice and sugar plantations.	International sanctions have meant that new aircraft cannot be purchased.	Due to international sanctions, it is not possible to buy new aircraft.
French: Certains pensaient qu’il avait raison, mais beaucoup croyaient le contraire : que le système solaire se déplaçait autour de la Terre, y compris le Soleil (et même les autres étoiles). = English: Some people thought he was right but many people believed the opposite; that the Solar System moved around the Earth, including the Sun (and even the other stars).	Neurobiological data provide physical evidence for a theoretical approach to the investigation of cognition. Therefore it narrows the research area and makes it much more exact.	Neurobiological data provide material evidence for a theoretical approach to the study of cognition. They therefore allow the field of research to be narrowed down and made much more precise.
French: Les données neurobiologiques fournissent des preuves matérielles pour une approche théorique de l'étude de la cognition. Elles permettent donc de réduire le champ de recherche et de le rendre beaucoup plus précis. = English: Neurobiological data provide physical evidence for a theoretical approach to the investigation of cognition. Therefore it narrows the research area and makes it much more exact.	Montevideo is in the subtropics; in the summer months, temperatures above +30°C are common.	Montevideo is located in the subtropical zone and temperatures above 30 °C are common in summer.
French: Michael Schumacher a terminé sa course peu de temps après Alonso, en raison des dommages subis au niveau des suspensions tout au long de la course. = English: Michael Schumacher ended his race not long after Alonso, because of the suspension damage in the numerous battles during the race.	After seeing the horrors and atrocities of war during World War I, nations desired to avoid such a situation again in the future.	After seeing the horrors and atrocities of war during the First World War, the nations wished to avoid such a situation in the future.
French: Cela ne me semblait pas logique ; ce n'était certainement pas juste. = English: That didn't seem to make sense to me; it certainly wasn't fair.	Regional and seasonal severe weather phenomena include blizzards, snowstorms, ice storms, and dust storms.	Extreme weather phenomena, regional and seasonal, include cold storms, snowstorms with strong winds, and sand or dust storms.
French: Ces événements ont eu lieu dans la période généralement considérée comme le Haut Moyen Âge – période de l'histoire en Europe courant du XIe au XIIIe siècle (1000-1300). = English: The age where the events took place is commonly referred as the High Middle Ages the period of European history in the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries (AD 1000–1300).	The fission bomb works on the principle that it takes energy to put together a nucleus with many protons and neutrons.	The fission bomb works by converting energy by assembling a nucleus of a myriad of protons and neutrons.
French: Certains festivals disposent d'aires de camping spéciales pour les familles avec de jeunes enfants. = English: Some festivals have special camping areas for families with young children.	The largest tournament of the year takes place in December at the polo fields in Las Cañitas.	The biggest tournament of the year takes place in December on the polo fields of Las Cañitas.
French: Cinq minutes après le début de l'exposition, un vent se met à souffler pour atteindre, environ une minute plus tard, la vitesse de 70km/h... puis la pluie arrive, mais si forte et si grosse qu'elle frappe votre peau comme une aiguille, puis la grêle tombe du ciel, les gens paniquent, crient et se roulent dessus. = English: Five minutes into the display a wind starts rolling in, about a minute later, the wind is reaching 70km/h... then the rain comes, but so hard and so large that it slaps your skin like a needle, then hail fell from the sky, people panicking and screaming and running over each other.	We agree with the USOC's statement that the interests of our athletes and clubs, and their sport, may be better served by moving forward with meaningful change within our organization, rather than decertification.	We agree with the USOC statement that the interests of our athletes and clubs, as well as their sport, could be better served by moving forward and making significant changes within our organization rather than revoking accreditation.
French: Ses recherches ont démontré que si une hormone était administrée, elle accélérerait la maturation pulmonaire du bébé. = English: His research showed that if a hormone was administered it would speed up the baby's foetal lung maturation.	Voyagers planning sex reassignment surgery abroad must ensure they're carrying valid documents for the return trip.	Travellers who plan to have gender reassignment surgery abroad should ensure they have valid travel documents for their return journey.
French: Depuis la fondation d'Asunción en 1537, le Paraguay a réussi à conserver une grande partie de son caractère et de son identité autochtones. = English: Since the foundation of Asunción in 1537, Paraguay has managed to keep a lot of its indigenous character and identity.	Duty free shopping is the opportunity to buy goods exempted from taxes and excises at certain locations.	In some localities, duty-free shops provide an opportunity to buy goods that are duty-free and excise tax-free.
French: En dessous se trouvent des félins de taille plus moyenne qui mangent des proies de taille également moyenne, allant des lapins aux antilopes et autres chevreuils. = English: Under them are more medium sized cats that eat medium sized prey ranging from rabbits to antelopes and deer.	As with all South African National Parks, there are daily conservation and entry fees for the park.	As with all South African national parks, there are daily entrance and conservation fees for the park.
French: Il devait être abattu mardi, mais il a été sauvé suite à une décision d'urgence du tribunal. = English: It had been scheduled to be cut down on Tuesday, but was saved after an emergency court ruling.	As NSA, he assisted Carter in diplomatically handling world affairs, such as the Camp David Accords, 1978; normalizing US–China relations thought the late 1970s; the Iranian Revolution, which led to the Iran hostage crisis, 1979; and the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan, 1979.	During his time at the NSA, he helped Carter to resolve international issues such as the Camp David Accords, in 1978, the normalization of relations between the United States and China at the end of the 1970s, the Iranian Revolution and its consequences such as the Iran hostage crisis, in 1979, and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, in 1979.
French: Selon l'agence nucléaire japonaise, du césium et de l'iode radioactifs ont été identifiés à la centrale. = English: According to Japan's nuclear agency, radioactive caesium and iodine has been identified at the plant.	Prime Minister Stephen Harper has agreed to send the government's 'Clean Air Act' to an all-party committee for review, before its second reading, after Tuesday's 25 minute meeting with NDP leader Jack Layton at the PMO.	Prime Minister Stephen Harper has agreed to send the "air quality act" of the government to a multi-party committee for review, before its second reading, after the 25-minute meeting on Tuesday with the NDP leader, Jack Layton, at the CPM.
French: Là, ils ont trouvé le corps de Saroja Balasubramanian, 53 ans, couvert de couvertures tachées de sang. = English: There, they found the body of Saroja Balasubramanian, 53, covered with blood-stained blankets.	South Africa have defeated the All Blacks (New Zealand) in a rugby union Tri Nations match at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium in Rustenburg, South Africa.	South Africa beat the All Blacks (New Zealand) in a rugby match of the Tri-nations at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium in Rustenburg, South Africa.
French: Lorsque vous appelez une personne qui se trouve à des milliers de kilomètres, vous utilisez un satellite. = English: When you call someone who is thousands of miles away, you are using a satellite.	he cave itself, which survived the times, gives a very vivid image of Muhammad’s spiritual inclinations.	The cave itself, which survived the times, gives a very vivid picture of Muhammad's spiritual inclinations.
French: « Nous nous efforcerons de réduire les émissions de dioxyde de carbone par unité de PIB de manière significative d'ici 2020 par rapport au niveau de 2005 », a déclaré M. Hu. = English: "We will endeavour to cut carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by a notable margin by 2020 from the 2005 level," Hu said.	Foster care is supposed to provide all the necessities that were lacking in the home they were previously taken from.	Placement in foster care is supposed to provide all the necessities that were lacking in the home from which they were previously removed.
French: Les lions sont les chats les plus sociables, vivant en grands groupes appelés meutes. = English: Lions are the most social cats, living in large groups called prides.	MS is a disease that affects the central nervous system, which is made up of the brain, the spinal cord and the optic nerve.	Multiple sclerosis is a disease that affects the central nervous system, composed of the brain, spinal cord and optic nerve.
French: Vérifiez que le bus que vous envisagez de prendre se rend à Hébron et pas seulement à la colonie juive voisine de Kyriat Arba. = English: Check that the bus you are thinking of taking goes into Hebron and not just to the nearby Jewish settlement of Kiryat Arba.	This is called a chemical's pH. You can make an indicator using red cabbage juice.	This is what is called the pH of a chemical. You can make an indicator by using red cabbage juice.
French: Schneider a témoigné par liaison vidéo depuis une base de l’USAF dans son pays. = English: Schneider testified via videolink from a USAF base in his homeland.	"This is not going to be goodbye. This is the closing of one chapter and the opening of a new one."	“It’s not goodbye. It’s a page that is turning, and another that is opening.”
French: Le satellite reçoit l'appel dans l'espace puis le renvoie sur Terre, presque instantanément. = English: The satellite in space gets the call and then reflects it back down, almost instantly.	On Monday, Sara Danius, permanent secretary of the Nobel Committee for Literature at the Swedish Academy, publicly announced during a radio program on Sveriges Radio in Sweden the committee, unable to reach Bob Dylan directly about winning the 2016 Nobel Prize in Literature, had abandoned its efforts to reach him.	Monday, during a radio show on Sveriges Radio, in Sweden, Sara Danius, permanent secretary of the Nobel Committee for Literature of the Swedish Academy, publicly announced that the committee, unable to contact Bob Dylan directly about the 2016 Nobel Prize for Literature, had given up trying to contact him.
French: Pourquoi une organisation voudrait-elle s’imposer le fastidieux processus de création d’une structure d’apprentissage ? L’un des objectifs liés à la mise en pratique de concepts organisationnels d’apprentissage est l’innovation. = English: Why would an organization want to go through the time consuming process of establishing a learning organization? One goal for putting organizational learning concepts into practice is innovation.	Ironing damp clothes can help them dry. Many hotels have an iron and ironing board available for loan, even if one is not present in the room.	By ironing damp clothes, they can be dried more easily. Many hotels provide iron and ironing board that can be borrowed, even if they are not in the rooms.
French: Le roi et la reine ont été obligés, à cause de la foule, de faire ouvrir les fenêtres de leurs carrosses. = English: The mob of people forced the King And Queen to have their carriage windows wide open.	If you're not used to driving on country roads, keep your wits about you: steep grades, narrow lanes, and sharp curves predominate.	If you are not used to driving on country roads, keep your mind open: steep slopes, narrow lanes and tight curves predominate.
French: Le patient s'était rendu au Nigeria, où certains cas de virus Ebola se sont produits. = English: The patient had been to Nigeria, where some cases of the Ebola virus have occurred.	It was ruled by the "Vichy" French. These were French people who had made peace with the Germans in 1940 and worked with the invaders instead of fighting them.	It was governed by the Vichy French, French who made peace with the Germans in 1940 and collaborated with the occupier instead of fighting it.
French: Bien que Goma soit raisonnablement sûre, toute visite à l'extérieur de Goma doit faire l'objet de recherches pour comprendre l'état des combats qui persistent dans la province du Nord-Kivu. = English: While Goma is reasonably safe, any visits outside of Goma should be researched to understand the state of the fighting that persists in the North Kivu province.	Moldova is a multi-ethnic republic that has suffered from ethnic conflict.	Moldova is a multi-ethnic republic that suffers from ethnic conflicts.
French: Les dépenses de guerre de l'impérialisme américain dans la conquête des Philippines ont été payées par le peuple philippin lui-même. = English: The war expenditures of U.S. imperialism in the conquest of the Philippines were paid for by the Filipino people themselves.	Then, Lakkha Singh took the lead in singing the bhajans.	Then Lakkha Singh took the initiative in singing bhajans.
French: En 1884, Tesla s'est installé aux États-Unis d'Amérique pour accepter un emploi à la Edison Company à New York. = English: In 1884, Tesla moved to the United States of America to accept a job with the Edison Company in New York City.	It is thinner under the maria and thicker under the highlands.	It is thinner at the seas and thicker under the continents.
French: D'après la fuite, le document portera sur le différend à la frontière que la Palestine revendique sur la base des frontières existantes avant la guerre du Moyen-Orient de 1967. = English: The document, according to the leak, will refer to the borders dispute, which Palestine wants based on the borders before the 1967 Mideast War.	The Three Kingdoms was one of the bloodiest eras in Ancient China’s history thousands of people died fighting to sit in the highest seat in the grand palace at Xi’an.	The Three Kingdoms was one of the most bloody periods in the history of ancient China. Thousands of people died in battle to sit on the throne of the great palace of XI'an.
French: Le port a été le site d’une impasse navale tristement célèbre en 1889, lorsque sept navires d’Allemagne, des États-Unis et de Grande-Bretagne ont refusé de quitter le port. = English: The harbor was the site of an infamous naval standoff in 1889 when seven ships from Germany, the US, and Britain refused to leave the harbor.	This type of manager has difficulty making unpopular decisions, performing disciplinary action, performance evaluations, assigning responsibility, and holding people accountable.	This type of manager has trouble making unpopular decisions, taking disciplinary action, conducting evaluations, assigning responsibilities, and holding others accountable.
French: Dans la plupart des cas, les décès sont dus à l'épuisement qui résulte d'une tentative de nager à contre-courant, ce qui peut être impossible. = English: Most deaths happen as result of fatigue trying to swim back against the current, which may be impossible.	A simple popular dinner, especially during the summer, is the Pa amb Oli: Bread with olive oil, tomato, and any available condiments such as cheese, tunafish, etc.	A simple and popular dinner, especially in summer, is Pa amb Oli: bread with olive oil, tomato and all the available condiments, such as cheese, tuna, etc.
French: Vous n'avez pas forcément besoin d'un yacht dans les archipels et sur les lacs. = English: In the archipelagos and lakes you do not necessarily need a yacht.	With Kundalini Yoga the Kundalini energy (enlightenment energy) is awakened through yoga postures, breathing exercises, mantras and visualizations.	With Kundalini Yoga, the Kundalini energy (energy of enlightenment) is awakened by yoga postures, breathing exercises, mantras and visualizations.
French: Hu a encouragé les pays en voie de développement « à éviter l'ancienne méthode qui consistait à polluer d'abord et à nettoyer ensuite ». = English: Hu encouraged developing countries "to avoid the old path of polluting first and cleaning up later."	In the warm climate of the Middle East, the house was not so important.	In the hot climate of the Middle East, the house was not so important.
French: Bien que de nombreux animaux du parc soient habitués à voir des humains, il s'agit néanmoins d'espèces sauvages ; veuillez ne pas les nourrir ni les déranger. = English: Though many of the animals in the park are used to seeing humans, the wildlife is nonetheless wild and should not be fed or disturbed.	NASA's shuttle program chief N. Wayne Hale Jr. said the foam had fallen "after the time we are concerned about."	NASA shuttle program chief N. Wayne Hale Jr. said the moss fell "after the time that concerns us".
French: Les premiers cas de cette maladie saisonnière ont été déclarés fin juillet. = English: The first cases of the disease this season were reported in late July.	The Sundarbans cover an area of 3,850 km², of which about one-third is covered in water/marsh areas.	The Sundarbans cover an area of 3,850 km², of which about one third is covered by water/marshland.
French: Les Arabes ont également apporté la pratique de l'Islam dans les terres et cette religion s'est largement répandue aux Comores et à Mayotte. = English: The Arabs also brought Islam to the lands, and it took in a big way in the Comoros and Mayotte.	It takes a giant rocket over a 100 feet high to put a satellite or telescope in space.	It takes a giant rocket more than 30 meters high to put a satellite or a telescope in space.
French: En conséquence, les artistes fument des joints de cannabis sur scène, et le théâtre lui-même encourage le public à se joindre à eux. = English: As a result, the performers smoke cannabis joints on stage, and the theatre itself is encouraging the audience to join in.	They can see very well in the dark with night vision, and move very stealthily, too. Ocelots hunt their prey by blending in with their surroundings then pouncing on their prey.	They see very well in the dark thanks to their night vision, and they also move very stealthily. Ocelots hunt their prey by blending into their environment before pouncing on them.
French: Le pillage généralisé se serait poursuivi pendant la nuit, les forces de l'ordre n'étant pas présentes dans les rues de Bichkek. = English: Widespread looting reportedly continued overnight, as law enforcement officers were not present on Bishkek's streets.	Internal poisoning may not be immediately apparent. Symptoms, such as vomiting are sufficiently general that an immediate diagnosis cannot be made.	Internal poisoning may not be immediately visible. Symptoms, such as vomiting, are general enough that an immediate diagnosis cannot be made.
French: Pour les Springboks, ce fut la fin d'une série de cinq défaites. = English: For the Springboks, it ended a five-match losing streak.	The official Falklands currency is the Falkland pound (FKP) whose value is set equivalent to that of one British pound (GBP).	The official currency of the Falkland Islands is the Falkland Islands pound (FKP) which is equivalent to a pound sterling (GBP).
French: Le commandement stratégique du bureau du département de la défense des États-Unis suit les débris. = English: The United States Strategic Command of the U.S. Department of Defense office is tracking the debris.	"He [Wales] basically lied to us from the start. First, by acting as if this was for legal reasons. Second, by pretending he was listening to us, right up to his art deletion."	“He [Wales] lied to us right from the beginning. First by claiming legal reasons, then by pretending to listen to us until he removed his work.”
French: Comme il n'y avait pas de grandes forêts en terre de Canaan, le bois était extrêmement cher. = English: There were no large forests in the land of Canaan, so wood was extremely expensive.	The main letters to watch out for are c and g, since their pronunciation varies based on the following vowel.	The main letters to watch are c and g, because their pronunciation varies depending on the vowel that follows.
French: L’italien est également la langue de tous les jours utilisée par la plupart des personnes qui travaillent dans l’état, tandis que le latin est souvent utilisé dans les cérémonies religieuses. = English: Italian is also the everyday language used by most of those who work in the state while Latin is often used in religious ceremonies.	But, if used without further qualifiers, the term tends to mean the food originally from the central and eastern parts of the main island Java.	However, when this term is used without any other qualifiers, it tends to refer to foods from the central and eastern parts of the main island of Java.
French: Noël est l'une des fêtes les plus importantes de la chrétienté, elle célèbre la naissance de Jésus. = English: Christmas is one of the most important holidays of Christianity, and is celebrated as the birthday of Jesus.	Both Assassin-bugs and Bed-bugs are nidicolous, adapted to living in nest or housing of their host.	Reduviid bugs, like bedbugs, are nidicolous, meaning they are adapted to live in the nest or habitat of their host.
French: Tous les noms, suivis du mot Sie qui signifie vous, commencent toujours par une majuscule, même au milieu d’une phrase. = English: All nouns, alongside the word Sie for you, always begin with a capital letter, even in the middle of a sentence.	"She’s very cute and sings quite well, too," he said according to a transcript of the news conference.	“She is very pretty, and she sings very well too”, he said according to a transcript of the press conference.
French: C’était le dernier match des All Blacks, qui avaient déjà remporté le trophée il y a deux semaines. = English: It was the final match for the All Blacks, who had already won the trophy two weeks ago.	The capital of Moldova is Chişinău. The local language is Romanian, but Russian is widely used.	The capital of Moldova is Chişinău. The local language is Romanian, but Russian is very widespread.
French: Les critères varient selon le lieu où l'on se trouve ; dans certaines parties du monde, comme en Amérique du Nord, la limite d'âge peut être inférieure à celle en vigueur en Europe. = English: The definition has geographic variations, where the age limit might be shorter in places such as North America than in Europe.	The work done was mostly theoretical, but the program was written to simulate observations made of the Sagittarius galaxy.	The work was mainly theoretical, but the program was written to simulate observations of the Sagitarius galaxy.
French: Tout comme la lune exerce une traction sur la terre, provoquant des marées, la Voie lactée exerce une force sur la galaxie du Sagittaire. = English: Just like the moon exerts a pull on the earth, causing tides, so does the Milky Way exert a force on the Sagittarius galaxy.	Curiously, though, mobile phone service is much stronger here than along many other stretches of the route, e.g. the Pennsylvania Wilds.	On the other hand, mobile service is curiously much stronger here than on many other parts of the road, for example the Pennsylvania Wilds.
French: La sclérose en plaques est une maladie qui affecte le système nerveux central, composé du cerveau, de la moelle épinière et du nerf optique. = English: MS is a disease that affects the central nervous system, which is made up of the brain, the spinal cord and the optic nerve.	Virtual Scaffolds are internalized in the software and are meant to question, prompt, and explain procedures that may have been to challenging for the student to handle alone.	Virtual scaffolding is integrated into the software and is intended to question, guide and explain procedures that could have been too difficult to manage for the student alone.
French: La seule manière de le faire parvenir plus rapidement était de l'envoyer en tant que bagage enregistré. Les réglementations aériennes ne les autoriseront pas à envoyer un bagage sans passager, et c'est là que vous intervenez. = English: The only way to get it through faster was to send it as checked luggage. Airline regulations will not allow them to send luggage without a passenger, which is where you come in.	A curry can be either "dry" or "wet" depending on the amount of liquid.	A curry dish can be "solid" or "liquid", depending on how much sauce it contains.
French: Les requins existent, mais ils attaquent rarement les humains. La plupart d'entre eux ont peur des humains et s'en écarteraient. = English: Sharks do exist, however they rarely attack humans. Most sharks are scared of humans and would swim away.	Other topics covered reportedly include the future state of Jerusalem which is sacred to both nations and the Jordan Valley issue.	Other topics discussed include the future state of Jerusalem, which is sacred to both nations, and the issue of the Jordan Valley.
French: D’après le U.S. Corps of Engineers, une pluviométrie de 6 pouces pourrait ouvrir une brèche dans les digues précédemment endommagées. = English: The U.S. Corps of Engineers estimated that 6 inches of rainfall could breach the previously damaged levees.	Crown Office, which is in overall charge of prosecutions, has indicated to journalists that no further comment will be made at least until indictment.	The Crown Prosecution Service, which is responsible for all prosecutions, said to journalists that no further comment would be made at least until the indictment.
French: La peur du manque de transport a engendré la possibilité que le match puisse se jouer à huis clos, sans les supporters des équipes. = English: Fears of lack of transportation raised the possibility that the game would be forced to play behind closed doors without the team's supporters.	The first public reading of the document was by John Nixon in the yard of Independence Hall on July 8.	The first public reading of the document was made by John Nixon in the courtyard of Independence Hall on July 8.
French: L'Argentine est connue pour avoir une des meilleures équipes et parmi les meilleurs joueurs de polo dans le monde. = English: Argentina is well known for having one of the best polo teams and players in the world.	He was subsequently relocated to Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge.	He was then transferred to Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge.
French: Pendant plus d'un millier d'années, la religion chrétienne a lié les États européens entre eux malgré les différences de langue et de coutumes. = English: For over a thousand years the Christian religion had bound European states together despite differences in language and customs. I	Nature-based tourism attracts people interested in visiting natural areas for the purpose of enjoying the scenery, including plant and animal wildlife.	Ecotourism appeals to people who wish to visit natural areas in order to enjoy the scenery, especially the fauna and flora. I
French: Le 6 octobre 1789, le roi Louis XVI, la reine Marie-Antoinette, leurs deux jeunes enfants (Marie-Thérèse, 11 ans, et Louis-Charles, 4 ans) et la sœur du roi, madame Élisabeth, tous terrifiés, sont contraints de rentrer à Paris depuis Versailles par une foule de vendeuses. = English: The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	Also to the north visit the great Sanctuary of Our Lady of Fatima (Shrine), a place of worldwide famous Marian apparitions.	On your way north, do not miss the beautiful sanctuary of Notre-Dame de Fatima (temple), a world famous place for the apparitions of Mary.
French: En 1683, les forces de la dynastie Qing (1644-1912) prennent le contrôle des zones côtières occidentale et septentrionale de Taïwan et la déclarent province de l'Empire Qing en 1885. = English: In 1683, Qing dynasty (1644-1912) forces take control of Taiwan’s western and northern coastal areas and declared Taiwan as a province of the Qing Empire in 1885.	He trained as an obstetrician and began to work at the Auckland's National Women's Hospital in 1959.	He trained as an obstetrician and started working at the National Women's Hospital in Auckland in 1959.
French: Le concept est venu de Chine où les fleurs de prunier étaient la fleur de prédilection. = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	The story presented in the French opera, by Camille Saint-Saens, is of an artist "whose life is dictated by a love for drugs and Japan."	The story presented in the French opera by Camille Saint-Saens is that of an artist "whose life is dictated by his love for drugs and Japan".
French: Le romantisme présentait un important élément de déterminisme culturel, tiré d'écrivains tels que Goethe, Fichte et Schlegel. = English: Romanticism had a large element of cultural determinism, drawn from writers such as Goethe, Fichte, and Schlegel.	Across the United States of America, there are approximately 400,000 known cases of Multiple Sclerosis (MS), leaving it as the leading neurological disease in younger and middle aged adults.	In the United States, there are about 400 000 cases of multiple sclerosis (MS), making it the leading neurological disease in young and middle-aged adults.
French: « Ce n'est pas un au revoir. C'est une page qui se tourne, et une autre qui s'ouvre. » = English: "This is not going to be goodbye. This is the closing of one chapter and the opening of a new one."	No child should ever have to grow up in an environment that is not nurturing, caring, and educational, but they do.	No child should ever have to grow up in an environment that is not stimulating, attentive and educational, but that is the case.
French: Le village de Haldarsvík offre des vues sur l’île voisine d’Eysturoy et abrite une église octogonale inhabituelle. = English: The village of Haldarsvík offer views of the nearby island Eysturoy and has an unusual octagonal church.	Virtual teams are held to the same standards of excellence as conventional teams, but there are subtle differences.	Virtual teams are subject to the same standards of excellence as conventional teams, but there are subtle differences.
French: Le photographe a été transporté au Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, où il est mort à la suite de ses blessures. = English: The photographer was transported to Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, where he subsequently died.	After its adoption by Congress on July 4, a handwritten draft signed by the President of Congress John Hancock and the Secretary Charles Thomson was then sent a few blocks away to the printing shop of John Dunlap.	After its adoption by Congress on July 4, a manuscript draft signed by the president of Congress John Hancock and the secretary Charles Thomson was then sent a few blocks away to John Dunlap's printing shop.
French: En ce qui concerne les inversions magnétiques, plus le nombre de Rossby est petit, moins l’étoile est active . = English: The smaller the Rossby number, the less active the star with respect to magnetic reversals.	As soon as you get out of the current, swimming back is no more difficult than normally.	As soon as you get out of the current, the return swim is not more difficult than usual.
French: La Grande Pyramide de Gizeh est la seule des sept merveilles qui existe encore aujourd’hui. = English: The Great Pyramid at Giza is the only one of the seven wonders that is still standing today.	Its long jaws were studded with more than 70 razor-sharp teeth, along with an extra set in the roof of its mouth, meaning that there was no escape for anything that crossed its path.	Its long jaws were equipped with more than 70 sharp teeth like razor blades, as well as a series of additional teeth in the palate, so that anything that crossed its path could not escape.
French: Il a également gravé des billets de banque pour de nombreux pays. Parmi les exemples récents de son travail, on peut citer les portraits du Premier ministre au recto des nouveaux billets canadiens de 5 et 100 dollars. = English: He was also engaged in engraving banknotes for many countries, recent examples of his work including the Prime Ministerial portraits on the front of the new Canadian $5 and $100 bills.	Thus, the pencil was a good friend to many people when it came out.	So, the pencil was a good friend to many people when it came out.
French: La bombe à fission fonctionne selon le principe suivant : elle transforme l'énergie en assemblant un noyau d'une myriade de protons et neutrons. = English: The fission bomb works on the principle that it takes energy to put together a nucleus with many protons and neutrons.	towards the end of the Middle Ages western Europe began to develop their own style. one of the biggest developments of the time as a result of the crusades people began to use buttons to fasten clothing.	In the late Middle Ages, Western Europe began to develop its own style. One of the greatest advances of the time, following the Crusades, was the use of buttons for clothing closure.
French: En outre, une absence de réaction a de graves conséquences : troubles de la croissance, malnutrition et en fin de compte, la mort. = English: Moreover, failure to do so has serious consequences: growth depression, malnutrition, and ultimately death.	The archipelago lies 120 km north of the Peninsula. The largest is King George Island with the settlement of Villa Las Estrellas.	The archipelago is 120 km north of the peninsula. King-George Island, with the village of Villa Las Estrellas, is the largest.
French: En à peine deux semaines, les Américains et les Forces de la France Libre avaient libéré le sud de la France et se dirigeaient vers l'Allemagne. = English: In just two weeks the Americans and Free French forces had liberated southern France and were turning towards Germany.	In contrast, animal foods (ants, termites, eggs) not only are easily digestible, but they provide high-quantity proteins that contain all the essential amino acids.	By contrast, animal food (ants, termites, eggs) is easy to digest while providing a large amount of protein containing all the vital amino acids.
French: Dans la plupart des cas, les décès sont dus à l'épuisement qui résulte d'une tentative de nager à contre-courant, ce qui peut être impossible. = English: Most deaths happen as result of fatigue trying to swim back against the current, which may be impossible.	Mrs. Kirchner announced her intention to run for president at the Argentine Theatre, the same location she used to start her 2005 campaign for the Senate as member of the Buenos Aires province delegation.	Mrs. Kirchner announced her intention to run for president at the Argentinian Theatre, the same place where she started her 2005 campaign for the Senate as a member of the Buenos Aires delegation.
French: Sa réputation en tant qu'épicentre du luxe a débuté aux environs de l'an 400, et duré jusqu'à 1100 environ. = English: Its renown for being an epicenter of luxury began in about 400 A.D. and lasted up until about 1100 A.D.	Biological clocks are self sustaining oscillators which will continue a period of free-running cycling even in the absence of external cues.	Biological clocks are self-sufficient oscillators that will continue to cycle for a certain period of time even in the absence of external stimulation.
French: Les églises plus traditionnelles organisent souvent une veillée pascale le samedi soir pendant le week-end de Pâques, les congrégations faisant souvent irruption dans la fête au coup de minuit pour célébrer la résurrection du Christ. = English: More traditional churches often hold an Easter Vigil on Saturday night during the Easter weekend, with the congregations often breaking into celebration at the stroke of midnight to celebrate Christ's resurrection.	The crash occurred high up in mountainous terrain, and is believed to have been the result of hostile fire.	The accident happened in mountainous terrain, and it seems that it was caused by a malicious arson.
French: La luminosité et la rotation sont utilisées conjointement afin de déterminer le nombre de Rossby d'une étoile, qui est lié au flux de plasma. = English: The luminosity and rotation are used together to determine a star's Rossby number, which is related to plasma flow.	For example, one might say that the motor car necessarily leads to the development of roads.	For example, we could say that the automobile necessarily leads to the development of roads.
French: Par opposition, la nourriture d'origine animale (fourmis, termites, œufs) est facile à digérer tout en apportant une grande quantité de protéines renfermant tous les acides aminés vitaux. = English: In contrast, animal foods (ants, termites, eggs) not only are easily digestible, but they provide high-quantity proteins that contain all the essential amino acids.	The willingness of governments to issue passports with gender not stated (X) or documents updated to match a desired name and gender varies.	The willingness of governments to issue passports with an unmarked sex (X) or updated documents to match the desired name and sex varies.
French: Toutefois, la plupart des panneaux sont uniquement en catalan, car la loi établit qu'il s'agit de la première langue officielle. = English: However, most signs are indicated only in Catalan because it is established by law as the first official language.	The 35mm format is actually, somewhat confusingly, 36mm in width by 24mm in height.	The 35 mm format is in fact, and this is quite surprising, 36 mm wide by 24 mm high.
French: "Dans une interview, il a déclaré que la nouvelle mutation était ""très troublante et alarmante en raison du taux de mortalité très élevé""." = English: In an interview, he said the new variant was "very highly troubling and alarming because of the very high fatality rate."	The Sundarbans are the largest littoral mangrove belt in the world, stretching 80 km (50 mi) into the Bangladeshi and Indian hinterland from the coast.	The Sundarbans is the largest coastal mangrove belt in the world, stretching 80 km (50 miles) from the coast to the Bangladeshi and Indian hinterland.
French: Les Parisiens ont la réputation d'être égocentriques, grossiers et arrogants. = English: Parisians have a reputation for being egocentric, rude and arrogant.	Widespread looting reportedly continued overnight, as law enforcement officers were not present on Bishkek's streets.	The looting continued throughout the night, with the police not being present in the streets of Bichkek.
French: Ces enfants sont considérés comme « féroces » ou sauvages. Certains enfants sauvages ont été enfermés par des personnes (généralement leurs propres parents) ; dans certains cas, l'abandon de cet enfant était dû au rejet par les parents d'une déficience intellectuelle ou physique grave dont souffrait l'enfant. = English: Such children are called "feral" or wild. Some feral children have been confined by people (usually their own parents); in some cases this child abandonment was due to the parents' rejection of a child's severe intellectual or physical impairment.	Written on the back of the Declaration of Independence were the words "Original Declaration of Independence dated 4th July 1776". The text appears on the bottom of the document, upside down.	On the back of the Declaration of Independence, one can read the words "Original Declaration of Independence dated July 4, 1776". The text is found at the bottom of the document, upside down.
French: Ils ont annulé la tournée après que le chanteur Steven Tyler se soit blessé en tombant de scène lors d'un concert le 5 août dernier. = English: They have cancelled the tour after lead singer Steven Tyler was injured after he fell off stage while performing on August 5.	The scenes are displayed on the pyramids and the different pyramids are lit up.	The scenes are displayed on the pyramids and the different pyramids are lit.
French: L'expérience Hershey et Chase a été l'une des principales indications que l'ADN était un matériel génétique. = English: The Hershey and Chase experiment was one of the leading suggestions that DNA was a genetic material.	The Tibetan Buddhism is based on the teachings of Buddha, but were extended by the mahayana path of love and by a lot of techniques from Indian Yoga.	Tibetan Buddhism is based on the teachings of the Buddha, but has been enriched by the Mahayana path of love and by many Indian yoga techniques.
French: De la même manière que Paris est connue comme la capitale de la mode du monde contemporain, Constantinople était considérée comme celle de l’Europe féodale. = English: In the manner that Paris is known as the fashion capital of the contemporary world, Constantinople was regarded as the fashion capital of feudal Europe.	The village of Haldarsvík offer views of the nearby island Eysturoy and has an unusual octagonal church.	The village of Haldarsvík offers views of the neighbouring island of Eysturoy and houses an unusual octagonal church.
French: De nombreux produits de boulangerie allemands contiennent également des amandes, des noisettes et d’autres noix. Les gâteaux populaires se marient souvent particulièrement bien avec une tasse de café serré. = English: Many German baked goods also feature almonds, hazelnuts, and other tree nuts. Popular cakes often pair particularly well with a cup of strong coffee.	The first cases of the disease this season were reported in late July.	The first cases of this seasonal disease were reported at the end of July.
French: Il a été volé par des pirates, attaqué au Tibet par un chien enragé, a échappé à un mariage au Népal et a été arrêté en Inde. = English: He was robbed by pirates, attacked in Tibet by a rabid dog, escaped marriage in Nepal and was arrested in India.	His 1,000th stamp was the magnificent "Great Deeds by Swedish Kings" by David Klöcker Ehrenstrahl in 2000, which is listed in the Guinness Book of World Records.	His thousandth stamp was the magnificent "Great Deeds by Swedish Kings" by David Klöcker Ehrenstrahl in 2000, which is in the Guinness Book of Records.
French: Pour admirer les plus beaux panoramas de Hong Kong, quittez l’île et rejoignez le front de mer de Kowloon situé en face. = English: To get the best views of Hong Kong, leave the island and head for the Kowloon waterfront opposite.	According to police, the driver of the vehicle that hit the photographer is unlikely to face criminal charges.	According to the police, it is unlikely that the driver of the vehicle that hit the photographer will face criminal charges.
French: Le satellite reçoit l'appel dans l'espace puis le renvoie sur Terre, presque instantanément. = English: The satellite in space gets the call and then reflects it back down, almost instantly.	Only mutations in germ-line cells can be passed on to children, while mutations elsewhere can cause cell-death or cancer.	Only mutations in the germ cells can be passed on to children, while other mutations can lead to cell death or cancer.
French: Aristote, un philosophe, a théorisé que tout est constitué d’un mélange d’un ou plusieurs des quatre éléments. Il s’agissait de la terre, de l’eau, de l’air et du feu. = English: Aristotle, a philosopher, theorised that everything is made up of a mixture of one or more of four elements. They were earth, water, air, and fire.	Domestic goats were generally kept in herds that wandered on hills or other grazing areas, often tended by goatherds who were frequently children or adolescents, similar to the more widely known shepherd. These methods of herding are still used today.	Domestic goats were usually kept in herds that roamed the hills or other grazing areas, often cared for by shepherds who were most often children or adolescents, similar to the more well-known term of shepherds. These pastoral methods are still in use today.
French: Si vous traversez le nord de la Baltique en hiver, veillez à vérifier l'emplacement de la cabane, car la traversée de la glace peut provoquer des bruits insupportables au niveau des cabanes les plus exposées. = English: If crossing the Northern Baltic in winter, check the cabin location, as going through ice causes quite horrible noise for those most affected.	Some animals, such as elephants and giraffes, tend to approach closely to cars and standard equipment will allow good viewing.	Some animals, such as elephants and giraffes, tend to get close to cars and standard equipment allows for good observation.
French: Chaque temple avait une cour ouverte, puis un sanctuaire intérieur auquel seuls les prêtres pouvaient accéder. = English: Each temple had an open temple courtyard and then an inner sanctuary that only the priests could enter.	Gold may be worked into all sorts of shapes. It can be rolled into tiny shapes.	You can shape gold in many ways. It can be rolled into tiny pieces
French: Avec le Kundalini Yoga, l’énergie Kundalini (énergie d’illumination) est éveillée par des postures de yoga, des exercices de respiration, des mantras et des visualisations. = English: With Kundalini Yoga the Kundalini energy (enlightenment energy) is awakened through yoga postures, breathing exercises, mantras and visualizations.	The most readily accessible plant resources would have been the proteins accessible in leaves and legumes, but these are hard for primates like us to digest unless they are cooked.	The most easily accessible plant resources would be the proteins contained in leaves and legumes, but these are difficult to digest for primates like us, unless they are cooked.
French: Ce n'est cependant pas la seule, l'expérimentation, et une expérience est un test qui sert à éliminer une ou plusieurs des hypothèses possibles, poser des questions et faire des observations, mais qui oriente également la recherche scientifique. = English: It isn’t alone though, experimentation, and an experiment is a test that is used to eliminate one or more of the possible hypotheses, asking questions, and making observations also guide scientific research.	Insects were the first animals to take to the air. Their ability to fly helped them evade enemies more easily and find food and mates more efficiently.	Insects were the first animals to fly. Their ability to fly allowed them to escape more easily from their enemies and to find more effectively food and companions.
French: Le 6 octobre 1789, le roi Louis XVI, la reine Marie-Antoinette, leurs deux jeunes enfants (Marie-Thérèse, 11 ans, et Louis-Charles, 4 ans) et la sœur du roi, madame Élisabeth, tous terrifiés, sont contraints de rentrer à Paris depuis Versailles par une foule de vendeuses. = English: The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	Hamilton confirmed Howard University Hospital admitted the patient in stable condition.	Hamilton confirmed that the University of Howard Hospital admitted the patient in stable condition.
French: Le port a été le site d’une impasse navale tristement célèbre en 1889, lorsque sept navires d’Allemagne, des États-Unis et de Grande-Bretagne ont refusé de quitter le port. = English: The harbor was the site of an infamous naval standoff in 1889 when seven ships from Germany, the US, and Britain refused to leave the harbor.	The program started at 8:30 p.m. local time (15.00 UTC).	The program started at 8:30 p.m. local time (1500 UTC).
French: Avec le Kundalini Yoga, l’énergie Kundalini (énergie d’illumination) est éveillée par des postures de yoga, des exercices de respiration, des mantras et des visualisations. = English: With Kundalini Yoga the Kundalini energy (enlightenment energy) is awakened through yoga postures, breathing exercises, mantras and visualizations.	A car bomb detonated at police headquarters in Gaziantep, Turkey yesterday morning killed two police officers and injured more than twenty other people.	A car bomb exploded at the police headquarters in Gaziantep, Turkey, yesterday morning, killing two police officers and injuring more than twenty other people.
French: Ce comportement entraîne souvent des dissensions entre les dirigeants et le reste de l'équipe. = English: This behavior oftentimes results in rifts between the leaders and the rest of the team.	Smaller tournaments and matches can also be seen here at other times of the year.	In addition, smaller tournaments and games are sometimes organized here at other times of the year.
French: Les agences de voyage proposent généralement des forfaits comprenant le petit déjeuner, le service de transport depuis/vers l'aéroport ou même des forfaits combinant le vol et l'hébergement. = English: Travel agents usually offer packages that include breakfast, transportation arrangements to/from the airport or even combined flight and hotel packages.	Congress began funding the obscenity initiative in fiscal 2005 and specified that the FBI must devote 10 agents to adult pornography.	The Congress launched the funding for the initiative against pornography in the 2005 budget, while specifying that the FBI was about to assign ten agents to the fight against adult pornography.
French: La solution est apportée par la technologie sous la forme de sorties éducatives virtuelles. Les élèves peuvent regarder les objets anciens d'un musée, visiter un aquarium, ou admirer une superbe œuvre d'art tout en restant assis avec leur classe. = English: Technology offers the solution with virtual field trips. Students can look at museum artifacts, visit an aquarium, or admire beautiful art while sitting with their class.	Shared taxis are a quick and comfortable means to travel to nearby places, such as Paro (Nu 150) and Punakha (Nu 200).	Shared taxis are a fast and comfortable way to get to nearby places, such as Paro (150 Nu) and Punakha (200 Nu).
French: Il s'agissait plutôt des quatre états de la matière (dans le même ordre) : solide, liquide, gazeux et plasma, bien qu'il ait également émis la théorie selon laquelle ces derniers se transforment en nouvelles substances pour former ce que nous voyons. = English: This was more like the four states of matter (in the same order): solid, liquid, gas, and plasma, though he also theorised that they change into new substances to form what we see.	Fourteen schools in Hawaii located on or near coastlines were closed all of Wednesday despite the warnings being lifted.	Fourteen schools in Hawaii located on or near the coast were closed all day Wednesday despite the warnings being lifted.
French: Selon l'agence nucléaire japonaise, du césium et de l'iode radioactifs ont été identifiés à la centrale. = English: According to Japan's nuclear agency, radioactive caesium and iodine has been identified at the plant.	People would bring sacrifices to the gods and the priests would try to attend to the needs of the gods through ceremonies and festivals.	People brought sacrifices to the gods and the priests tried to answer the needs of the gods through ceremonies and festivities.
French: Les cultures et les tribus anciennes ont commencé à les garder près d'elles pour avoir facilement accès au lait, aux poils, à la viande et aux peaux. = English: Ancient cultures and tribes began to keep them for easy access to milk, hair, meat, and skins.	They also define routes for popular hiking and cycling trails.	They also define the routes for popular hiking trails and bike paths.
French: Cela nous a apporté le train, la voiture et de nombreux autres moyens de transport. = English: It has brought us the train, the car, and many other transportation devices.	To better represent traffic flow, relationships have been established between the three main characteristics: (1) flow, (2) density, and (3) velocity.	To better represent the traffic flow, relationships have been established between the three main characteristics: (1) the flow, (2) the density, and (3) the speed.
French: Il va sans dire que si vous connaissez une langue romane, il vous sera plus facile d'apprendre le portugais. = English: Needless to say, if you know a Romance language, it will be easier for you to learn Portuguese.	Segregation and recombination shuffle variation back and forth between the two pools with each generation.	Segregation and recombination alternate variations between the two basins at each generation.
French: L'épaisseur de la croûte est d'environ 70 km sur la face visible et 100 km sur la face cachée. = English: The crust is about 70 km thick on the near side and 100 km thick on the far side.	Singapore is generally an extremely safe place to be and very easy to navigate, and you can buy almost anything after arriving.	Singapore is generally considered to be a very safe place, where it is very easy to move around, and where you will be able to buy almost anything you need once you arrive there.
French: Il peut être tiré en fil fin, qui peut être tordu et tressé. Il peut être martelé ou laminé en feuilles. = English: It can be pulled into thin wire, which can be twisted and plaited. It can be hammered or rolled into sheets.	Deputy Inspector General D K Arya said, "We have arrested five persons who raped the Swiss woman and recovered her mobile and laptop".	The Deputy Inspector General D.K. Arya said, "We have arrested five people for violating the Swiss national, and we have recovered her cell phone and laptop."
French: Le patient s'était rendu au Nigeria, où certains cas de virus Ebola se sont produits. = English: The patient had been to Nigeria, where some cases of the Ebola virus have occurred.	In 1884, Tesla moved to the United States of America to accept a job with the Edison Company in New York City.	In 1884, Tesla moved to the United States of America to accept a job at the Edison Company in New York.
French: Un nombre binaire ne peut avoir qu’une seule de deux valeurs : 0 ou 1. Ces nombres sont appelés des chiffres binaires, ou bits pour utiliser le jargon informatique. = English: A binary number can have only one of two values, i.e. 0 or 1, and these numbers are referred to as binary digits - or bits, to use computer jargon.	Middle order batsmen, Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid, performed well and made a hundred-run partnership.	The middle-order batsmen, Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid, have done well and have scored a century together.
French: Située au sommet d'une des montagnes au nord de La Mecque, la grotte est totalement isolée du reste du monde. = English: Resting on the top of one of the mountains north of Mecca, the cave is completely isolated from the rest of the world.	Some people thought he was right but many people believed the opposite; that the Solar System moved around the Earth, including the Sun (and even the other stars).	Some thought he was right, but many believed the opposite: that the solar system was moving around the Earth, including the Sun (and even the other stars).
French: L'ONU espère également finaliser un fonds pour aider les pays touchés par le réchauffement climatique à faire face aux impacts. = English: The U.N. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts.	A search of the Internet for 'Hostile environment course' will probably provide the address of a local company.	A search on the internet for "Courses in hostile environment" will probably provide the address of a local company.
French: Chaque matin, les gens quittent les petites villes de campagne en voiture pour se rendre à leur lieu de travail et croisent d'autres gens qui vont travailler dans la campagne qu'ils viennent de quitter. = English: Every morning, people leave small country towns in cars to go their workplace and are passed by others whose work destination is the place they have just left.	This too can be borrowed from the stock at the entrance but that clothing isn't washed after every user so you may not feel comfortable wearing these skirts. One size fits all for men!	You can also borrow this garment from the stock at the entrance, but as it is not washed after each use, you may not feel comfortable wearing these skirts. One size fits all for men!
French: Pendant son temps au sein de la NSA, il a aidé Carter à résoudre diplomatiquement des questions internationales telles que les accords de Camp David, en 1978, la normalisation des relations entre les États-Unis et la Chine à la fin des années 1970, la révolution iranienne et ses conséquences comme la prise d'otages en Iran, en 1979, et l'invasion des forces soviétiques en Afghanistan, en 1979. = English: As NSA, he assisted Carter in diplomatically handling world affairs, such as the Camp David Accords, 1978; normalizing US–China relations thought the late 1970s; the Iranian Revolution, which led to the Iran hostage crisis, 1979; and the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan, 1979.	If you want to be close to the action you're going to have to get in early to get a camping site close to the music.	If you want to be close to the music event, you will have to arrive early to find a good camping spot.
French: Si le pays dans lequel vous vous rendez fait l'objet d'un avertissement aux voyageurs émis par votre gouvernement, votre assurance santé à l'étranger ou votre assurance annulation voyage peuvent en être affectées. = English: If the country you will be visiting becomes subject to a travel advisory, your travel health insurance or your trip cancellation insurance may be affected.	The strategy proved effective, cutting off vital military and civilian supplies, although this blockade violated generally accepted international law codified by several international agreements of the past two centuries.	This strategy has proven effective, cutting vital military and civilian supplies, although this blockade has violated the generally accepted international law codified by several international agreements of the last two centuries.
French: Un médecin exerçant à l'hôpital pour enfants de Pittsburgh, en Pennsylvanie, a été accusé de meurtre avec circonstances aggravantes après que sa mère ait été retrouvée morte dans le coffre de sa voiture mercredi, selon les autorités de l'Ohio. = English: A doctor who worked at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania will be charged with aggravated murder after her mother was found dead in the trunk of her car Wednesday, authorities in Ohio say.	It is reported that some 9400 homes in the region are without water and approximately 100 without electricity.	It is reported that about 9,400 homes in the area are without water, and about 100 are without electricity.
French: Par exemple, visiter des châteaux dans la vallée de la Loire, la vallée du Rhin ou faire une croisière vers des sites intéressants sur le Danube ou faire du bateau le long du canal Erie. = English: For example visiting castles in the Loire Valley, the Rhine valley or taking a cruise to interesting cites on the Danube or boating along the Erie Canal.	Bachmann, who won the Ames Straw Poll in August, decided to end her campaign.	Bachmann, who had won the straw poll in August, decided to end her campaign.
French: Les Portugais, qui après l'avoir détruite l'avaient reconstruite et baptisée Casa Branca, l'ont finalement abandonnée en 1755 après un tremblement de terre. = English: The Portuguese destroyed it and rebuilt it under the name Casa Branca, only to abandon it after an earthquake in 1755.	Filters vary in effectiveness, and should you have a concern, then you should consider buying your water in a sealed bottle from a reputable company.	The effectiveness of filters varies, and if you have a problem, you should consider buying your water in a sealed bottle from a reputable company.
French: Soyez ferme dans le refus des avances hommes, et n'ayez pas peur de tenir bon (différences culturelles ou non, ça ne veut pas dire que c'est acceptable !) = English: Be firm in turning down men, and don't be afraid to stand your ground (cultural differences or not, it doesn't make it ok!).	They were compelled to pay taxes to the U.S. colonial regime to defray a major part of the expenditures and the interest on bonds floated in the name of the Philippine government through the Wall Street banking houses.	They were forced to pay taxes to the American colonial regime to cover a large part of the expenses and interest on the bonds issued in the name of the Philippine government by Wall Street banks.
French: Le 6 octobre 1789, le roi Louis XVI, la reine Marie-Antoinette, leurs deux jeunes enfants (Marie-Thérèse, 11 ans, et Louis-Charles, 4 ans) et la sœur du roi, madame Élisabeth, tous terrifiés, sont contraints de rentrer à Paris depuis Versailles par une foule de vendeuses. = English: The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	By 1976, thirty percent of Machu Picchu had been restored and restoration continues till today.	In 1976, thirty percent of Machu Picchu had been restored and this restoration continues to this day.
French: Les tireurs de l’essai supplémentaire de lutte contre les parasites devaient être étroitement surveillés par des rangers, car l’essai était contrôlé et son efficacité évaluée. = English: Shooters in the supplementary pest control trial were to be closely supervised by rangers, as the trial was monitored and its effectiveness evaluated.	If you booked your flights and accommodation for 2020 before the postponement was announced, you may have a tricky situation.	If you have booked your flights and accommodation in 2020 before the announcement of the postponement, you may find yourself in a difficult situation.
French: Plusieurs millions de flacons de vaccin contre l'encéphalite ont également été promis par le gouvernement, ce qui aidera à préparer les agences sanitaires pour l'année prochaine. = English: Several million vials of encephalitis vaccine have also been promised by the government, which will help prepare health agencies for next year.	The Report is highly critical of almost every aspect of the present policy of the Executive towards Iraq and it urges an immediate change of direction.	The report is very critical of almost all aspects of the current government's policy towards Iraq and strongly advocates for an immediate change of direction.
French: Dans l'essai PALM, le ZMapp a servi de témoin, ce qui signifie que les scientifiques l'ont utilisé comme base de référence et lui ont comparé les trois autres traitements. = English: In the PALM trial, ZMapp served as a control, meaning scientists used it as a baseline and compared the three other treatments to it.	Japans holds nearly 7,000 islands (the biggest being Honshu), making Japan the 7th largest island in the world!	Japan has nearly 7,000 islands (the largest being Honshu), making it the 7th largest island in the world!
French: Aujourd’hui, Tombouctou est une ville pauvre, bien que sa réputation en fasse une attraction touristique, et elle dispose d’un aéroport. = English: Today, Timbuktu is an impoverished town, although its reputation makes it a tourist attraction, and it has an airport.	Reindeer husbandry is an important livelihood among the Sámi and the culture surrounding the trade is important also for many with other professions.	Reindeer herding is an important means of subsistence for the Sami and the culture surrounding this trade is of great importance to many other professions.
French: Le 6 octobre 1789, le roi Louis XVI, la reine Marie-Antoinette, leurs deux jeunes enfants (Marie-Thérèse, 11 ans, et Louis-Charles, 4 ans) et la sœur du roi, madame Élisabeth, tous terrifiés, sont contraints de rentrer à Paris depuis Versailles par une foule de vendeuses. = English: The terrified King Louis XVI, Queen Marie Antoinette their two young children (11 year old Marie Therese and four year old Louis-Charles) and the King's sister, Madam Elizabeth, on the 6th October 1789 were forced back to Paris from Versailles by a mob of market women.	Aristotle, a philosopher, theorised that everything is made up of a mixture of one or more of four elements. They were earth, water, air, and fire.	Aristotle, a philosopher, theorised that everything is made up of a mixture of one or more of the four elements. These were earth, water, air and fire.
French: Edgar Veguilla a été blessé au bras et à la mâchoire tandis que Kristoffer Schneider a dû subir une chirurgie reconstructive pour son visage. = English: Edgar Veguilla received arm and jaw wounds while Kristoffer Schneider was left requiring reconstructive surgery for his face.	Some atoms have unstable nuclei which means that they tend to break apart with little or no nudging.	Some atoms have an unstable nucleus, so they tend to break with little or no pressure.
French: Dès que vous sortez du courant, le retour à la nage n'est pas plus difficile que d'habitude. = English: As soon as you get out of the current, swimming back is no more difficult than normally.	In late 2015, TogiNet established AstroNet Radio as a subsidiary station.	At the end of 2015, TogiNet created AstroNet Radio as a subsidiary station.
French: La sclérose en plaques est une maladie qui affecte le système nerveux central, composé du cerveau, de la moelle épinière et du nerf optique. = English: MS is a disease that affects the central nervous system, which is made up of the brain, the spinal cord and the optic nerve.	By September 17, 1939, the Polish defense was already broken, and the only hope was to retreat and reorganise along the Romanian bridgehead.	On September 17, 1939, Polish defense was already broken, and the only hope was to retreat and reorganize along the Romanian bridgehead.
French: Il a été volé par des pirates, attaqué au Tibet par un chien enragé, a échappé à un mariage au Népal et a été arrêté en Inde. = English: He was robbed by pirates, attacked in Tibet by a rabid dog, escaped marriage in Nepal and was arrested in India.	Remains of sewage systems have been found in the houses of the Minoan cities of Crete and Santorini in Greece.	Remains of sewer systems were found in the houses of the Minoan cities of Crete and Santorini in Greece.
French: Les Portugais, qui après l'avoir détruite l'avaient reconstruite et baptisée Casa Branca, l'ont finalement abandonnée en 1755 après un tremblement de terre. = English: The Portuguese destroyed it and rebuilt it under the name Casa Branca, only to abandon it after an earthquake in 1755.	Hong Kong Island gives the territory of Hong Kong its name and is the place that many tourists regard as the main focus.	Hong Kong Island gives its name to the territory of Hong Kong and is the main attraction for many tourists.
French: Et depuis, le gouvernement fédéral a pris les devants en se chargeant du financement du Mersey Hospital à Devonport, en Tasmanie. Le gouvernement d'état et certains parlementaires ont qualifié cet acte de farce à l'approche des élections de novembre. = English: Ever since the Federal Government stepped in to take over funding of the Mersey hospital in Devonport, Tasmania, the state government and some federal MPs have criticised this act as a stunt in the prelude to the federal election to be called by November.	During these periods fierce warfare took place between many nobles fighting for the throne.	During these periods, fierce struggles took place between many members of the nobility who fought for the throne.
French: La livre sterling est une monnaie couramment acceptée partout dans les îles, tandis qu’à Stanley, les cartes de crédit et les dollars américains sont également souvent acceptés. = English: British pounds will generally be accepted anywhere in the islands and within Stanley credit cards and United States dollars are also often accepted.	UN peacekeepers, whom arrived in Haiti after the 2010 earthquake, are being blamed for the spread of the disease which started near the troop's encampment.	UN peacekeepers who arrived in Haiti after the 2010 earthquake are accused of spreading the disease that began near their camp.
French: L'île de Hong Kong donne son nom au territoire de Hong Kong et représente le principal centre d'intérêt pour de nombreux touristes. = English: Hong Kong Island gives the territory of Hong Kong its name and is the place that many tourists regard as the main focus.	The strain of bird flu lethal to humans, H5N1, has been confirmed to have infected a dead wild duck, found on Monday, in marshland near Lyon in the east of France.	The deadly strain of bird flu for humans, H5N1, has been confirmed as having infected a dead wild duck found on Monday in a marsh near Lyon in eastern France.
French: L'ONU espère également finaliser un fonds pour aider les pays touchés par le réchauffement climatique à faire face aux impacts. = English: The U.N. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts.	On some routes, the larger companies have their own planes, but for other routes and smaller firms there was a problem.	On some routes, big companies have their own planes, but on other routes and for small companies, there was a problem.
French: Au début, lorsque vous vous rendiez à l'étranger, les gens étaient probablement patients et compréhensifs, sachant que les voyageurs dans un nouveau pays doivent s'adapter. = English: When you went abroad at first, people were probably patient and understanding, knowing that travellers in a new country need to adapt.	Workplace harmony is crucial, emphasizing group effort rather than praising individual accomplishments.	Harmony at work is crucial, because it emphasizes collective effort rather than praising individual achievements.
French: L'« équipe invisible » est l'équipe de direction à laquelle chacun des membres rend ses comptes. Elle établit les standards pour chaque d'eux. = English: The “invisible team” is the management team to which each of the members report. The invisible team sets the standards for each member.	All I say to people is you treat us the way we treat you.	All I say to people is that you treat us the way we treat you.
French: En 2002, Goma a été détruite par la lave du volcan Nyiragongo qui a enseveli la plupart des rues de la ville, en particulier le centre-ville. = English: In 2002 Goma was destroyed by lava from the Nyiragongo volcano which buried most of the town’s streets, particularly the town centre.	Appropriate use of blogs "can empower students to become more analytical and critical; through actively responding to Internet materials, students can define their positions in the context of others' writings as well as outline their own perspectives on particular issues (Oravec, 2002).	"When used well, blogs can help students to develop their analytical skills and critical thinking : by actively reacting to online content, they can compare their views with those of others and express their own views on specific topics."
French: L'essor des nouvelles technologies nous permet de voir et d'étudier des structures et des processus cérébraux jamais vus auparavant. = English: The rise of new technologies allows us to see and investigate brain structures and processes never seen before.	British pounds will generally be accepted anywhere in the islands and within Stanley credit cards and United States dollars are also often accepted.	The pound sterling is a currency commonly accepted everywhere in the islands, while in Stanley, credit cards and US dollars are also often accepted.
French: La voie où l'accident a eu lieu a été temporairement barrée pour permettre aux services de secours d'extraire le conducteur de l'Audi TT rouge. = English: The road where the crash happened was temporarily closed while emergency services freed the driver from the red Audi TT.	For the Springboks, it ended a five-match losing streak.	For the Springboks, it was the end of a five-game losing streak.
French: En conséquence, deux espèces de poissons ont disparu et deux autres sont en voie de disparition, dont le chevesne à bosse. = English: As a result, two fish species have become extinct, and two others have become endangered, including the humpback chub.	The Chaco region was home to other groups of indigenous tribes such as the Guaycurú and Payaguá, who survived by hunting, gathering and fishing.	Other indigenous tribes that inhabited the Chaco, such as the Guaycurú or the Payaguá, survived mainly through fishing, hunting, or gathering.
French: Montevideo est situé en zone subtropicale et les températures estivales dépassant les 30 °C sont courantes. = English: Montevideo is in the subtropics; in the summer months, temperatures above +30°C are common.	Travelling by plane can be a scary experience for people of all ages and backgrounds, particularly if they've not flown before or have experienced a traumatic event.	Flying can be a frightening experience for people of all ages and backgrounds, especially if they have never flown before or have experienced a traumatic event.
French: Les plages de Tamaki Drive se trouvent sur le port de Waitemata, dans la banlieue chic de Mission Bay et de Saint Heliers dans le centre d’Auckland. = English: Tamaki Drive beaches are on the Waitemata Harbour, in the upmarket suburbs of Mission Bay and St Heliers in Central Auckland.	One of the main Christian tenets is that wealth should be used to alleviate suffering and poverty and that the monetary funds of the church are there specifically for that reason.	One of the main Christian principles is that wealth should be used to relieve suffering and poverty and that church funds are there specifically for this purpose.
French: Enfin, après des milliers ou même des millions d'années, les deux populations paraîtront tellement différentes qu'elles ne pourront plus être considérées comme appartenant à la même espèce. = English: Eventually, after thousands or even millions of years, the two populations will look so different that they can't be called the same species.	Ancient cultures and tribes began to keep them for easy access to milk, hair, meat, and skins.	Ancient cultures and tribes began keeping them close by for easy access to milk, hair, meat, and hides.
French: Il y a quelques milliers d’années, un homme appelé Aristarque a affirmé que le système solaire se déplaçait autour du Soleil. = English: Thousands of years ago, a man called Aristarchus said that the Solar System moved around the Sun.	Poland's men's visually impaired skier Maciej Krezel and guide Anna Ogarzynska finished thirteenth in the Super-G. South Korea's Jong Seork Park finished twenty-fourth in the men's sitting Super-G.	The Polish blind skier Maciej Krezel and his guide Anna Ogarzynska finished thirteenth in the Super-G. The South Korean Jong Seok Park finished twenty-fourth in the men's sitting Super-G.
French: Vous n'avez pas forcément besoin d'un yacht dans les archipels et sur les lacs. = English: In the archipelagos and lakes you do not necessarily need a yacht.	The smaller the Rossby number, the less active the star with respect to magnetic reversals.	In terms of magnetic inversions, the smaller the Rossby number, the less active the star is.
French: Quatorze écoles d’Hawaii situées sur ou près des côtes ont été fermées toute la journée de mercredi malgré la levée des alertes. = English: Fourteen schools in Hawaii located on or near coastlines were closed all of Wednesday despite the warnings being lifted.	This is just like symptomatic treatment in many cases. However, if we do not only want a temporary solution, then we should find the root of the problems, and we should deactivate them.	In many cases, this is a symptomatic treatment. However, if we do not want only a temporary solution, we must find the root of the problems and disable them.
French: Pour des informations sur les tournois et les endroits où acheter des billets pour les matchs de polo, consultez l’Asociacion Argentina de Polo. = English: For news on tournaments and where to buy tickets for polo matches, check Asociacion Argentina de Polo.	There are a lot of social and political effects such as the use of metric system, a shift from absolutism to republicanism, nationalism and the belief the country belongs to the people not to one sole ruler.	There are many social and political consequences such as the use of the metric system, the transition from absolutism to republicanism, nationalism and the belief that the country belongs to the people and not to a single leader.
French: Pensez à l'itinéraire de ski comme à un itinéraire de randonnée similaire. = English: Think of the skiing route as of a similar hiking route.	Visibility may also be restricted by falling or blowing snow or by condensation or ice on vehicle windows.	Visibility can also be limited by snowfall or blowing snow or by condensation or ice on the windows of vehicles.
French: Sur une période d'un an, une personne infectée peut infecter 10 à 15 contacts proches. = English: In one year's time, an infected person may infect 10 to 15 close contacts.	Advisories are merely a brief summary of the political situation in one country.	Opinions are only a brief summary of the political situation in a country.
French: Ils ont constaté que le Soleil fonctionnait selon les mêmes principes de base que les autres étoiles. L'activité de toutes les étoiles du système est déterminée par leur luminosité, leur rotation et rien d'autre. = English: They found the Sun operated on the same basic principles as other stars: The activity of all stars in the system was found to be driven by their luminosity, their rotation, and nothing else.	One was sent to George Washington on July 6, who had it read to his troops in New York on July 9. A copy reached London on August 10.	One of them was sent to George Washington on July 6, who read it to his troops in New York on July 9. A copy reached London on August 10.
French: Son coéquipier Fernando Alonso a dominé pendant toute la course, mais son arrêt au stand a mis fin à cette domination, sans doute en raison d'une roue avant droite mal fixée. = English: His teammate Fernando Alonso was in the lead for most of the race, but ended it right after his pit-stop, probably because a badly tucked right front wheel.	Eventually, wooden wheels were replaced by iron wheels. In 1767, the first full-iron rails were introduced.	Finally, wooden wheels were replaced by iron wheels. In 1767, the first iron rails appeared.
French: La Fédération américaine de gymnastique soutient la lettre du Comité olympique des États-Unis et accepte la nécessité absolue de la famille olympique de promouvoir un environnement sûr pour tous nos athlètes. = English: USA Gymnastics supports the United States Olympic Committee's letter and accepts the absolute need of the Olympic family to promote a safe environment for all of our athletes.	These are sometimes-crowded family beaches with a good range of shops lining the shore. Swimming is safe.	These beaches, sometimes very frequented by families, have many shops along the coast. Swimming is safe there.
French: Les porcs sont porteurs de la maladie, qui est ensuite transmise à l'homme par les moustiques. = English: The disease is carried by pigs, which then migrates to humans through mosquitos.	Japanese work culture is more hierarchical and formal that what Westerners may be used to.	Japanese work culture is more hierarchical and formal than that to which Westerners may be accustomed.
French: Si vous avez réservé vos vols et votre hébergement en 2020 avant l'annonce du report, vous risquez d'être confronté à une situation délicate. = English: If you booked your flights and accommodation for 2020 before the postponement was announced, you may have a tricky situation.	When the fighting ceased after the wounded were transported to the hospital, about 40 of the other remaining inmates stayed in the yard and refused to return to their cells.	Once the fight was stopped after the injured were taken to the infirmary, about 40 of the remaining prisoners refused to go back to their cells.
French: Cela permettra aux joueurs de contrôler les actions et les mouvements dans les jeux vidéo en déplaçant l’appareil dans l’air. = English: This will allow players to control actions and movements in video games by moving the device through the air.	No matter how docile they may look, bison, elk, moose, bears, and nearly all large animals can attack.	As docile as they may seem, the bison, elk, moose, bear and almost all large animals can attack.
French: Depuis l’arrivée de l’homme aux Galapagos, de nombreux mammifères ont été introduits, notamment des chèvres, des chevaux, des vaches, des rats, des chats et des chiens. = English: Since the arrival of man to the Galapagos, many mammals have been introduced including goats, horses, cows, rats, cats and dogs.	Sort of like rolling a heavy cart up a hill. Splitting the nucleus up again then releases some of that energy.	A bit like if we were to make a heavy cart climb a hill. By dividing the core again, and then releasing a little of that energy.
French: Veuillez traiter le site avec toute la dignité, la solennité et le respect qu'il mérite. Ne faites pas de blagues sur l'Holocauste ou les nazis. = English: Please treat the site with all of the dignity, solemnity and respect it deserves. Do not make jokes about the Holocaust or Nazis.	Downhill skiing as a sport goes back to at least the 17th century, and in 1861 the first recreational ski club was opened by Norwegians in Australia.	Alpine skiing as a sport dates back at least to the 17th century; the first leisure ski club was founded in 1861 in Australia by Norwegians.
French: Le degré de paix intérieure d'une personne s'oppose au degré de tension dans son corps et son esprit. = English: The amount of inner peace a person possesses correlates oppositely to the amount of tension in one’s body and spirit.	The Report opens with plea for open debate and the formation of a consensus in the United States about the policy towards the Middle East.	The report opens with a call for an open debate and the formation of a consensus in the United States on Middle East policy.
French: Environ trois minutes après le lancement, une caméra embarquée montrait de nombreux morceaux de mousse isolante en train de se détacher du réservoir de carburant. = English: Around 3 minutes into the launch, an on-board camera showed numerous pieces of insulation foam break away from the fuel tank.	While this is often only an inaccurate stereotype, the best way to get along in Paris still is to be on your best behavior, acting like someone who is "bien élevé" (well brought up). It will make getting about considerably easier.	Although this stereotype is often inaccurate, the best way to get along in Paris is to behave in the best possible way, to act like a well-bred person. This will greatly facilitate your travels.
French: 34 % des personnes interrogées partagent ce point de vue, et souhaitent que la reine Elizabeth II soit la dernière monarque à régner sur l'Australie. = English: 34 per cent of those in the poll share this view, wanting Queen Elizabeth II to be Australia's last monarch.	The winter can be deceptively chilly: temperatures rarely go below freezing, but the wind and humidity combine to make it feel colder than what the thermometer says.	Winter can be deceptively cold: temperatures rarely drop below zero, but the wind and humidity combine to give the impression that it is colder than the thermometer says.
French: Toutes les entrées des grottes, qui ont été baptisées « Les sept sœurs », ont un diamètre d’au moins 100 à 250 mètres. = English: All of the cave entrances, which were named "The Seven Sisters", are at least 100 to 250 meters (328 to 820 feet) in diameter.	You can use boda-boda (motorcycle taxi) to get around Goma. The normal (local) price is ~500 Congolese Francs for the short ride.	You can use boda-boda (motorcycle taxi) to move around Goma. The normal price (local) is about 500 Congolese francs for a small trip.
French: Les scènes sont affichées sur les pyramides et les différentes pyramides sont éclairées. = English: The scenes are displayed on the pyramids and the different pyramids are lit up.	Potro received treatment to his shoulder at this point but managed to return to the game.	Potro received at this moment care for his shoulder, but succeeded in resuming the match.
French: Des produits artisanaux peuvent être considérés comme des antiquités, même s’ils sont moins anciens que des produits industriels similaires. = English: Handicraft products might be defined as antiques, though they are younger than similar mass-produced goods.	When you call someone who is thousands of miles away, you are using a satellite.	When you call someone who is thousands of miles away, you use a satellite.
French: Les Arabes ont également apporté la pratique de l'Islam dans les terres et cette religion s'est largement répandue aux Comores et à Mayotte. = English: The Arabs also brought Islam to the lands, and it took in a big way in the Comoros and Mayotte.	The final score was a one-point victory, 21 to 20, ending the All Blacks' 15 game winning streak.	The match was played to a point, 21 to 20, ending the series of 15 wins for the All Blacks.
French: Aux extrêmes du sondage, 29 % des personnes interrogées pensent que l'Australie devrait devenir une république le plus rapidement possible, tandis que 31 % pensent que l'Australie ne devrait jamais devenir une république. = English: At the extremes of the poll, 29 per cent of those surveyed believe Australia should become a republic as soon as possible, while 31 per cent believe Australia should never become a republic.	Huhne has resigned and he will be replaced in the Cabinet by Ed Davey MP. Norman Lamb MP is expected to take the Business Minister job Davey is vacating.	Huhne has resigned and will be replaced in the cabinet by the MP Ed Davey. The MP Norman Lamb will take the post of Minister for which Davey is stepping down.
French: Certains pensaient qu’il avait raison, mais beaucoup croyaient le contraire : que le système solaire se déplaçait autour de la Terre, y compris le Soleil (et même les autres étoiles). = English: Some people thought he was right but many people believed the opposite; that the Solar System moved around the Earth, including the Sun (and even the other stars).	The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth.	The satellites, which weighed more than 450 kg each and were moving at about 28,000 km/h, collided at 790 km above the Earth.
French: En raison du groupe d'îles qui le composent, le Japon est souvent désigné, d'un point de vue géographique, comme un « archipel ». = English: Due to the cluster/group of islands Japan has, Japan is often referred to, on a geographical stance, as an "archipelago"	In 1956 Słania moved to Sweden, where three years later he began work for the Swedish Post Office and became their chief engraver.	In 1956, Słania moved to Sweden, where three years later, he began working for the Swedish post office, becoming the chief engraver.
French: Après publication des résultats, Newt Gingrich a félicité Rick Santorum, mais a eu des mots durs à l'encontre de Mitt Romney, au nom de qui des campagnes publicitaires négatives avaient été diffusées en Iowa contre Newt Gingrich. = English: After the results came in, Gingrich lauded Santorum, but had tough words for Romney, on whose behalf negative campaign advertisements were aired in Iowa against Gingrich.	At the extremes of the poll, 29 per cent of those surveyed believe Australia should become a republic as soon as possible, while 31 per cent believe Australia should never become a republic.	At the extremes of the poll, 29 percent of those surveyed think Australia should become a republic as soon as possible, while 31 percent think Australia should never become a republic.
French: Voyager en avion peut être une expérience effrayante pour les personnes de tous âges et de tous horizons, en particulier si elles n'ont jamais volé auparavant ou ont vécu un événement traumatisant. = English: Travelling by plane can be a scary experience for people of all ages and backgrounds, particularly if they've not flown before or have experienced a traumatic event.	I don't know if you realize it or not, but most of the goods from Central America came into this country duty-free.	I don't know if you realise this, but most goods from Central America enter our country duty-free.
French: Les forêts ne sont cependant pas composées uniquement de marais de mangroves : elles recèlent également certains des derniers vestiges des jungles majestueuses qui recouvraient autrefois la plaine du Gange. = English: The forests aren't just mangrove swamps though — they include some of the last remaining stands of the mighty jungles which once covered the Gangetic plain.	Muhammad was deeply interested in matters beyond this mundane life. He used to frequent a cave that became known as “Hira‘” on the Mountain of “Noor” (light) for contemplation.	Muhammad was deeply interested in questions that went beyond the bounds of this worldly life. He had the habit of visiting a cave which became famous under the name of "Hira'" on the mountain of "Noor"' (light) for contemplation.
French: Nous sommes d'accord avec la déclaration de l'USOC (Comité olympique des États-Unis) selon laquelle les intérêts de nos athlètes et de nos clubs, ainsi que de leur sport, pourraient être mieux servis. Cela peut être fait en allant de l'avant et en procédant plutôt à des changements significatifs au sein de notre organisation, qu'à la révocation d'accréditation. = English: We agree with the USOC's statement that the interests of our athletes and clubs, and their sport, may be better served by moving forward with meaningful change within our organization, rather than decertification.	Generally speaking, two behaviors can emerge as managers begin to lead their former peers. One end of the spectrum is trying to remain “one of the guys” (or gals).	In general, two behaviors can emerge when a manager becomes the boss of former colleagues. At one end of the spectrum is trying to stay "the good cop" (or the good cop). At the other end is trying to be the "bad cop" (or the bad cop).
French: Elles définissent également les itinéraires pour les sentiers de randonnée et les pistes cyclables populaires. = English: They also define routes for popular hiking and cycling trails.	Before an organization can be innovative, leadership must create a culture of innovation as well as shared knowledge and organizational learning.	Before an organization can be innovative, its leadership must create an innovation culture, shared knowledge, and its own culture of learning.
French: Le Sphinx est placé comme la toile de fond et le narrateur d'une longue histoire. = English: The Sphinx is set as the backdrop and the narrator of a long story.	Severe weather can occur anywhere in the world, and there are different types of it, which can depend on geography, topography, and atmospheric conditions.	Weather conditions can be very unfavorable anywhere in the world, and they can be of several kinds, depending on geographical, topographical and atmospheric characteristics.
French: Les sous-cultures rassemblent des individus se sentant négligés par les normes sociétales et partageant les mêmes idées ce qui leur permet de développer un sentiment d'identité. = English: Subcultures bring together like-minded individuals who feel neglected by societal standards and allow them to develop a sense of identity.	Same goes for the military because instead of army rankings being based on class they were now based on cailaber.	The same goes for the army, because the ranking of armies is no longer based on class, but on caliber.
French: La tempête subtropicale Jerry, 10ème tempête de la saison des ouragans à porter un nom, est apparue ce jour dans l'océan Atlantique. = English: The tenth named storm of the Atlantic Hurricane season, Subtropical Storm Jerry, formed in the Atlantic Ocean today.	The central authority of the church had been in Rome for over a thousand years and this concentration of power and money led many to question whether this tenet was being met.	The central authority of the church was in Rome for over 1,000 years and this concentration of power and money led many people to wonder if this doctrine was being respected.
French: Les gens n'anticipent peut-être pas que la patience et la compréhension sont aussi nécessaires pour les voyageurs et voyageuses retournant à la maison. = English: People may not anticipate that patience and understanding are also necessary for travellers returning home.	Sharks do exist, however they rarely attack humans. Most sharks are scared of humans and would swim away.	Sharks do exist, but they rarely attack humans. Most of them are afraid of humans and would stay away from them.
French: Le Congrès n’avait pas le pouvoir d’imposer des taxes et, comme il n’y avait pas de pouvoir exécutif ou judiciaire national, il s’en remettait aux autorités de l’État, souvent peu coopératives, pour faire appliquer tous ses actes. = English: Congress lacked any power to impose taxes, and, because there was no national executive or judiciary, it relied on state authorities, who were often uncooperative, to enforce all its acts.	It has brought us the train, the car, and many other transportation devices.	It brought us the train, the automobile, and many other means of transportation.
French: Le roi et la reine ont été obligés, à cause de la foule, de faire ouvrir les fenêtres de leurs carrosses. = English: The mob of people forced the King And Queen to have their carriage windows wide open.	Field trips are a large part of any classroom. Quite often a teacher would love to take her students places to which a bus trip is not an option.	Excursions are an integral part of any school class. Often a teacher would like to take his/her students to places where a bus trip is not an option.
French: Il n'a pas pu prendre les médicaments nécessaires pour surmonter sa douleur, ceux-ci étant interdits au sein des Jeux. = English: He has been unable to take the drugs needed to overcome his pain as they are banned from the Games.	Usually you always here the sound of tourists and vendors. The story of the sound and light is just like a story book.	Usually, you hear the noise of tourists and sellers. The story of sound and light is like a history book.
French: Mais, situé dans les « tropiques élevées » à seulement quelques degrés au nord de l'équateur, il faudra vous adapter à la chaleur (toujours) et à un fort rayonnement du soleil (quand le ciel est dégagé, ce qui est plus rare). = English: But being placed in the "high tropics" just a few degrees north of equator you will need to deal with both heat (always) and strong sun (when the sky is clear, more rarely).	The cabbage juice changes color depending on how acidic or basic (alkaline) the chemical is.	The juice of cabbage changes color depending on the acidity or basicity (alkalinity) of the chemical.
French: Le rapport est très critique envers presque tous les aspects de la politique actuelle du gouvernement à l'égard de l'Irak et plaide vivement pour un changement de direction immédiat. = English: The Report is highly critical of almost every aspect of the present policy of the Executive towards Iraq and it urges an immediate change of direction.	Since students are often the most critical audience, the blog writer begins to strive to improve writing to avoid criticism.	As students are often the most critical audience, the blogger starts to try to improve his writing to avoid criticism.
French: L’un d’eux a été envoyé à George Washington le 6 juillet, qui l’a fait lire à ses troupes à New York le 9 juillet. Une copie est parvenue à Londres le 10 août. = English: One was sent to George Washington on July 6, who had it read to his troops in New York on July 9. A copy reached London on August 10.	There are many beaches, due to Auckland's straddling of two harbours. The most popular ones are in three areas.	There are many beaches, because Auckland is on two harbours. The most popular are in three areas.
French: Il repose sur les technologies satellitaires, et non sur les systèmes radars au sol utilisés auparavant, ce qui permet aux contrôleurs aériens de localiser les avions avec davantage de précision et de fournir aux pilotes des informations plus détaillées. = English: It uses satellite-based technology as opposed to older ground-radar-based technology to allow air traffic controllers to pinpoint aircraft with greater precision and give pilots more accurate information.	Your local telephone service provider should be able to give more information about connecting to this service.	Your local telephone service provider should be able to tell you more about connecting to this service.
French: Les plages sont nombreuses, car Auckland est à cheval sur deux ports. Les plus populaires se trouvent dans trois zones. = English: There are many beaches, due to Auckland's straddling of two harbours. The most popular ones are in three areas.	Dr. Ehud Ur, professor of medicine at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia and chair of the clinical and scientific division of the Canadian Diabetes Association cautioned that the research is still in its early days.	Dr Ehud Ur, professor of medicine at Dalhousie University in Halifax (Nova Scotia) and president of the clinical and scientific division of the Canadian Diabetes Association, warned that the research was still in its early stages.
French: Pourquoi les systèmes de transport engendrent-ils de telles plaintes, pourquoi tombent-ils en panne quotidiennement ? Les ingénieurs des transports sont-ils simplement incompétents ? Ou bien, se passe-t-il quelque chose de plus fondamental ? = English: Why do transportation systems engender such complaints, why do they fail on a daily basis? Are transportation engineers just incompetent? Or is something more fundamental going on?	Popular sports include football, basketball, volleyball, water-polo, fencing, rugby, cycling, ice hockey, roller hockey and F1 motor racing.	Popular sports include football, basketball, volleyball, water polo, fencing, rugby, cycling, ice hockey, roller hockey and Formula 1.
French: Deux théories de contenu populaires sont la théorie de la hiérarchie des besoins de Maslow et la théorie des deux facteurs de Herzberg. = English: Two popular content theories are Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs Theory and Hertzberg's Two Factor Theory.	People now write messages on computer screens, never having to come close to a sharpener.	People are now writing messages on computer screens, without ever having to get close to a pencil sharpener.
French: D’après la FAA, NextGen est un système qui permettrait aux appareils de voler sur des distances plus courtes et d’économiser des millions de gallons de carburant chaque année, limitant les émissions de carbone. = English: NextGen is a system the FAA claims would allow aircraft to fly shorter routes and save millions of gallons of fuel each year and cut carbon emissions.	The Northern Marianas emergency management office said that there were no damages reported in the nation.	The Office of Emergency Management for the Northern Mariana Islands said no damage had been reported in the country.
French: Fluke a écrit que les efforts de certains pour empêcher les femmes de parler de leur santé ont échoué. = English: Fluke wrote that the efforts by some to drown out women from speaking out about women’s health were unsuccessful.	The forests aren't just mangrove swamps though — they include some of the last remaining stands of the mighty jungles which once covered the Gangetic plain.	However, the forests are not composed solely of mangrove swamps: they also contain some of the last remnants of the majestic jungles that once covered the Ganges plain.
French: Naturellement, les superprofits issus de l'exploitation prolongée du peuple philippin pourraient constituer les avantages fondamentaux de l'impérialisme américain. = English: Of course, the superprofits derived from the protracted exploitation of the Filipino people would constitute the basic gains of U.S. imperialism.	Local authorities are warning residents in the vicinity of the plant to stay indoors, turn off air-conditioners and not to drink tap water.	Local authorities warn residents in the area to stay indoors, turn off air conditioners and not drink tap water.
French: L’épidémie a incité le gouvernement indien à prendre des mesures telles que le déploiement de collecteurs de porcs dans les zones gravement touchées, la distribution de milliers de moustiquaires et la pulvérisation de pesticides. = English: The outbreak has prompted the Indian government to undertake such measures as deployment of pig catchers in seriously affected areas, distributing thousands of mosquito curtains and spraying pesticides.	No major damage or injuries have been reported in Tonga, but power was temporarily lost, which reportedly prevented Tongan authorities from receiving the tsunami warning issued by the PTWC.	No serious damage or injury has been reported in Tonga, but electricity was temporarily cut, which would have prevented the Tongan authorities from receiving the tsunami warning issued by the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center.
French: La monnaie officielle des Îles Malouines est la livre des Îles Malouines (FKP) dont la valeur est équivalente à une livre sterling (GBP). = English: The official Falklands currency is the Falkland pound (FKP) whose value is set equivalent to that of one British pound (GBP).	If they sent things by air freight, on some routes it may have taken days to get through unloading and customs.	If they had sent goods by air freight, on some routes, it would have taken days to clear the goods and customs.
French: Les batteurs d'ordre moyen, Sachin Tendulkar et Rahul Dravid, ont obtenu de bons résultats et ont accompli un century ensemble. = English: Middle order batsmen, Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid, performed well and made a hundred-run partnership.	In 1994, this conflict led to the creation of the self-proclaimed Transnistria Republic in eastern Moldova, which has its own government and currency but is not recognised by any UN member country.	In 1994, this conflict led to the creation of the self-proclaimed Transnistrian republic in eastern Moldova, with its own government and its own currency, but recognized by no member country of the United Nations.
French: Si vous traversez le nord de la Baltique en hiver, veillez à vérifier l'emplacement de la cabane, car la traversée de la glace peut provoquer des bruits insupportables au niveau des cabanes les plus exposées. = English: If crossing the Northern Baltic in winter, check the cabin location, as going through ice causes quite horrible noise for those most affected.	The photographers later took the place of an aged lady as she needed the lavatory. Mendoza was gunned down.	Photographers then took the place of an elderly lady who needed to go to the toilet. Mendoza was shot.
French: L'Amazone est également le fleuve le plus large de la planète, atteignant parfois 10 km de large. = English: The Amazon is also the widest river on Earth, at times six miles wide.	Last week, METI announced that Apple had informed it of 34 additional overheating incidents, which the company called "non-serious."	Last week, the METI announced that Apple had informed it of 34 additional incidents of overheating, which the company described as "non-serious".
French: Les autorités locales avertissent les habitants des environs de rester à l’intérieur, d’éteindre les climatiseurs et de ne pas boire l’eau du robinet. = English: Local authorities are warning residents in the vicinity of the plant to stay indoors, turn off air-conditioners and not to drink tap water.	The much-abused and often-ridiculed rule of thirds is a simple guideline creating dynamism while keeping a measure of order in an image.	The rule of thirds, often abused and ridiculed, is a simple directive that creates dynamism while offering protection to the image.
French: Le Congrès n’avait pas le pouvoir d’imposer des taxes et, comme il n’y avait pas de pouvoir exécutif ou judiciaire national, il s’en remettait aux autorités de l’État, souvent peu coopératives, pour faire appliquer tous ses actes. = English: Congress lacked any power to impose taxes, and, because there was no national executive or judiciary, it relied on state authorities, who were often uncooperative, to enforce all its acts.	High winds, hail, excessive precipitation, and wildfires are forms and effects of severe weather, as are thunderstorms, tornadoes, waterspouts, and cyclones.	Winds, hail, excessive precipitation, and fires are all forms and effects of violent weather, as are thunderstorms, tornadoes, waterspouts, and hurricanes.
French: Environ trois minutes après le lancement, une caméra embarquée montrait de nombreux morceaux de mousse isolante en train de se détacher du réservoir de carburant. = English: Around 3 minutes into the launch, an on-board camera showed numerous pieces of insulation foam break away from the fuel tank.	No extra transport is being put on and overground trains will not stop at Wembley, and car parking and park-and-ride facilities are unavailable at the ground.	There is no additional transport and the surface trains will not stop at Wembley, and there are no car parks or park and ride facilities on the ground.
French: L'île de Hong Kong donne son nom au territoire de Hong Kong et représente le principal centre d'intérêt pour de nombreux touristes. = English: Hong Kong Island gives the territory of Hong Kong its name and is the place that many tourists regard as the main focus.	We can start living more friendly to the environment, we can join to the environmental movement, and we can even be activists in order to reduce the future suffering in some degree.	We can start by living in better harmony with the environment, we can join the environmental movement, and we can even campaign to alleviate the suffering to come.
French: Tout ce que je dis aux gens, c’est que vous nous traitez comme nous vous traitons. = English: All I say to people is you treat us the way we treat you.	All things considered, we should not be surprised if our own ancestors solved their "protein problem" in somewhat the same way that chimps on the savanna do today.	All things considered, we should not be surprised if our own ancestors solved their "protein problem" a little bit the way savannah chimpanzees do today.
French: Sur une période d'un an, une personne infectée peut infecter 10 à 15 contacts proches. = English: In one year's time, an infected person may infect 10 to 15 close contacts.	Their predecessors, the Australopithecus did not walk upright as habitually.	Their predecessors, the australopithecines, did not walk upright as usual.
French: Un ancien policier philippin a pris en otage des touristes de Hong Kong en détournant leur bus à Manille, la capitale des Philippines. = English: A former Filipino policeman has kept Hong Kong tourists hostage by hijacking their bus in Manila, the capital of the Philippines.	The truck driver, who is aged 64, was not injured in the crash.	The truck driver, aged 64, was not injured in the accident.
French: Maintenant, largement disponible dans tout l’archipel, la cuisine javanaise propose un éventail de plats simplement assaisonnés, les saveurs prédominantes que les Javanais privilégient étant les cacahuètes, les piments, le sucre (en particulier le sucre de coco javanais) et diverses épices aromatiques. = English: Now widely available throughout the archipelago, Javanese cuisine features an array of simply seasoned dishes, the predominant flavorings the Javanese favor being peanuts, chillies, sugar (especially Javanese coconut sugar) and various aromatic spices.	Parisians' abrupt exteriors will rapidly evaporate if you display some basic courtesies.	The abrupt exteriors of Parisians evaporate quickly if you show a minimum of courtesy.
French: Les vitesses de la norme Wi-Fi 802.11n sont sensiblement plus rapides que celles de ses prédécesseurs, avec un débit théorique maximum de 600 Mbit/s. = English: The speeds of 802.11n are substantially faster than that of its predecessors with a maximum theoretical throughput of 600Mbit/s.	While most of their food would be familiar to us, Romans did have their share of strange or unusual feast items, including wild boar, peacock, snails, and a type of rodent called a dormouse	Although the Romans ate food that we know, they ate some strange or unusual dishes for special occasions, including wild boar, peacocks, snails and the dormouse, a kind of rodent.
French: Ses recherches ont démontré que si une hormone était administrée, elle accélérerait la maturation pulmonaire du bébé. = English: His research showed that if a hormone was administered it would speed up the baby's foetal lung maturation.	When you went abroad at first, people were probably patient and understanding, knowing that travellers in a new country need to adapt.	At first, when you went abroad, people were probably patient and understanding, knowing that travellers in a new country must adapt.
French: Au XVIe siècle, le Paraguay, autrefois surnommé « la province géante des Indes », est né de la rencontre entre les conquérants espagnols et les populations indigènes. = English: In the 16th century Paraguay, formerly called "The Giant Province of the Indies", was born as a result of the encounter of Spanish conquerors with the native indigenous groups.	Some festivals have special camping areas for families with young children.	Some festivals have special camping areas for families with young children.
French: Évitez de ne pas laisser le tissu surchauffer (ce qui peut causer son rétrécissement ou dans les cas extrêmes, le brûler). = English: Be careful not to allow fabric to become too hot (which can cause shrinkage, or in extreme cases, scorch).	You can also have alloys that include small amounts of non-metallic elements like carbon.	There are also alloys that include a small amount of non-metallic elements, such as carbon.
French: S'ils avaient envoyé des marchandises par fret aérien, sur certains itinéraires, il aurait fallu des jours pour passer le déchargement et la douane. = English: If they sent things by air freight, on some routes it may have taken days to get through unloading and customs.	In Japan, the first cherry blossom parties were hosted by the emperor only for himself and other members of the aristocracy around the Imperial Court.	In Japan, the first cherry blossom festivals were organized by the emperor for himself and the other members of the imperial court.
French: Dans la plupart des cas, les décès sont dus à l'épuisement qui résulte d'une tentative de nager à contre-courant, ce qui peut être impossible. = English: Most deaths happen as result of fatigue trying to swim back against the current, which may be impossible.	Still, take advice from authorities, obey all signs, and pay close attention to safety warnings.	However, follow the advice of the authorities, obey all signs and pay particular attention to safety warnings.
French: L'argent peut être échangé à la seule banque des îles située à Stanley, en face du magasin FIC West. = English: Money can be exchanged at the only bank in the islands which is located in Stanley across from the FIC West store.	Similarly, by having a Schengen visa, you do not need to apply for visas to each of the Schengen member countries separately, hence saving time, money and paperwork.	Likewise, having a Schengen visa, you do not need to separately request a visa for each of the member countries of the space, which saves time, money and administrative formalities.
French: Avant l'arrivée des troupes, Haïti n'avait pas rencontré de problèmes liés à la maladie depuis les années 1800. = English: Prior to the arrival of troops, Haiti had not encountered problems related to the disease since the 1800s.	Its all-pervading power affected everyone from king to commoner.	His omnipresent power touched everyone, from the king to the peasant.
French: Des chanteurs célèbres dans tout le pays ont présenté des bhajans, ou chants de dévotion, aux pieds de Shri Shyam. = English: Famous singers across the country presented bhajans, or devotional songs, to Shri Shyam's feet.	In one year's time, an infected person may infect 10 to 15 close contacts.	Over a period of one year, an infected person can infect 10 to 15 close contacts.
French: Le concept est venu de Chine où les fleurs de prunier étaient la fleur de prédilection. = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	Virtually all computers in use today are based on the manipulation of information which is coded in the form of binary numbers.	Practically all computers used today are based on the manipulation of information that is encoded in binary numbers.
French: Son autre course, le slalom géant, lui a permis de terminer à la dixième place du groupe des femmes assises avec un temps combiné de 4:41.30, soit 2:11.60 minutes de moins que l'Autrichienne Claudia Loesch, arrivée première, et 1:09.02 minutes de moins que la Hongroise Gyöngyi Dani, arrivée neuvième. = English: Her other race, the Giant Slalom, saw her finish in tenth in the women's sitting group with a combined run time of 4:41.30, 2:11.60 minutes slower than first place finisher Austrian Claudia Loesch and 1:09.02 minutes slower than the ninth place finisher Gyöngyi Dani of Hungary.	Unfortunately, studying traffic flow is difficult because driver behavior cannot be predicted with one-hundred percent certainty.	Unfortunately, it is difficult to study traffic flow because the behaviour of drivers cannot be predicted with 100% certainty.
French: Il a été volé par des pirates, attaqué au Tibet par un chien enragé, a échappé à un mariage au Népal et a été arrêté en Inde. = English: He was robbed by pirates, attacked in Tibet by a rabid dog, escaped marriage in Nepal and was arrested in India.	For example visiting castles in the Loire Valley, the Rhine valley or taking a cruise to interesting cites on the Danube or boating along the Erie Canal.	For example, visit castles in the Loire Valley, the Rhine Valley or take a cruise to interesting sites on the Danube or take a boat ride along the Erie Canal.
French: « Nous avons à présent des souris de 4 mois qui ne sont pas diabétiques alors qu'elles l'étaient auparavant », a-t-il ajouté. = English: "We now have 4-month-old mice that are non-diabetic that used to be diabetic," he added.	Lion prides act much like packs of wolves or dogs, animals surprisingly similar to lions (but not other big cats) in behavior, and also very deadly to their prey.	Lion troops act like wolf or dog packs, animals surprisingly similar to lions (but not to other big cats) in their behavior, and also very deadly to their prey.
French: "Dans une interview, il a déclaré que la nouvelle mutation était ""très troublante et alarmante en raison du taux de mortalité très élevé""." = English: In an interview, he said the new variant was "very highly troubling and alarming because of the very high fatality rate."	Several Bishkek residents blamed protesters from the south for the lawlessness.	Several residents of Bichkek blamed the southern protesters for the anarchy.
French: "Lorsqu'on en fait bon usage, les blogs ""peuvent permettre aux étudiants de renforcer leurs capacités d'analyse et leur esprit critique : en réagissant activement aux contenus en ligne, ils peuvent confronter leur avis à celui des autres et exposer leurs propres points de vue sur des sujets bien précis"" (Oravec, 2002)." = English: Appropriate use of blogs "can empower students to become more analytical and critical; through actively responding to Internet materials, students can define their positions in the context of others' writings as well as outline their own perspectives on particular issues (Oravec, 2002).	The Oyapock River Bridge is a cable-stayed bridge. It spans the Oyapock River to link the cities of Oiapoque in Brazil and Saint-Georges de l'Oyapock in French Guiana.	The bridge over the Oyapock River is a suspension bridge. It spans the Oyapock River to connect the towns of Oiapoque in Brazil and Saint-Georges-de-l'Oyapock in French Guiana.
French: Les compagnies aériennes savent très bien qu'elles peuvent compter sur un certain type de voyageurs qui sont disposés à payer très cher les privilèges de la rapidité et du confort, et elles établissent leurs tarifs en connaissance de cause. = English: Airlines know well that there is a certain core group of flyers who are willing to pay top dollar for the privilege of getting somewhere fast and in comfort, and charge accordingly.	Candidates can send representatives to witness every part of the process. In the evening, votes are counted by volunteers under heavy supervision, following specific procedures.	Candidates can send representatives to attend each stage of the process. At night, votes are counted by volunteers under close supervision, according to specific procedures.
French: Il n'a pas pu prendre les médicaments nécessaires pour surmonter sa douleur, ceux-ci étant interdits au sein des Jeux. = English: He has been unable to take the drugs needed to overcome his pain as they are banned from the Games.	They found the Sun operated on the same basic principles as other stars: The activity of all stars in the system was found to be driven by their luminosity, their rotation, and nothing else.	They have found that the Sun works according to the same basic principles as other stars. The activity of all the stars in the system is determined by their luminosity, their rotation and nothing else.
French: Souvent, le fait d'avoir suivi des cours d'année sabbatique à l'étranger peut en fait vous donner de meilleures chances de faire des études supérieures dans votre pays. = English: In many cases, enrolling on a gap-year course abroad can actually improve your chances of moving into higher education back in your home country.	While he was working at the hospital Liggins began to investigate premature labor during his spare time.	When Liggins was working at the hospital, he started to investigate preterm births during his spare time.
French: Les agences de voyage proposent généralement des forfaits comprenant le petit déjeuner, le service de transport depuis/vers l'aéroport ou même des forfaits combinant le vol et l'hébergement. = English: Travel agents usually offer packages that include breakfast, transportation arrangements to/from the airport or even combined flight and hotel packages.	If you find yourself resetting the clock in your sleep, it can be placed on the other side of the room, forcing you to get out of bed to turn it off.	If you find yourself resetting the clock while sleeping, it can be placed on the other side of the room, forcing you to get out of bed to turn it off.
French: Malgré les larmes versées lors de ses adieux, Oprah Winfrey a clairement dit à ses fans qu'elle serait de retour. = English: Although Winfrey was tearful in her farewell, she made it clear to her fans she will be back.	Suits are standard business attire, and coworkers call each other by their family names or by job titles.	The costumes are classic workwear, and employees are addressed by their surname or by their function.
French: Un safari à pied (également appelé « marche en brousse », « safari pédestre » ou « footing ») consiste à faire de la randonnée, soit pendant quelques heures, soit pendant plusieurs jours. = English: A walking safari (also called a "bush walk", "hiking safari", or going "footing") consists of hiking, either for a few hours or several days.	German pastries are quite good, and in Bavaria, are quite rich and varied, similar to those of their southern neighbor, Austria.	German pastries are rather good, and in Bavaria, they are very rich and varied, similar to those of their southern neighbor, Austria.
French: Selon cette théorie, la majeure partie de la matière noire autour d’une galaxie se trouve dans une sorte de halo, et est constituée d’un grand nombre de petites particules. = English: This theory says that most dark matter around a galaxy is located around a galaxy in a kind of halo, and is made of lots of small particles.	Many people don't think about them as dinosaurs because they have feathers and can fly.	Few people consider them dinosaurs because they have wings and can fly.
French: L'inspecteur général adjoint D.K. Arya a déclaré : « Nous avons arrêté cinq personnes pour avoir violé la ressortissante suisse, et nous avons récupéré son téléphone et son ordinateur portables. » = English: Deputy Inspector General D K Arya said, "We have arrested five persons who raped the Swiss woman and recovered her mobile and laptop".	"We now have 4-month-old mice that are non-diabetic that used to be diabetic," he added.	"We now have mice that are four months old and are not diabetic, whereas they were before", he added.
French: Les citoyens de la Cité du Vatican sont tous catholiques. = English: All citizens of Vatican City are Roman Catholic.	This provides us with a lot of information and material to build simulation models which help us to understand processes in our mind.	This gives us a lot of information and material to build simulation models that help us understand the processes in our mind.
French: Dans les pays développés, il est rare d’entendre autant de plaintes concernant la qualité de l’eau ou l’effondrement de ponts. = English: In developed countries you seldom hear similar levels of complaints about water quality or bridges falling down.	The mountains of the Peninsula here merge into the plateau, then re-emerge to form the 360 km chain of the Ellsworth Mountains, bisected by the Minnesota Glacier.	The mountains of the peninsula merge into the plateau, then reappear to form the Ellsworth Mountains, 360 km long and crossed by the Minnesota Glacier.
French: La tempête subtropicale Jerry, 10ème tempête de la saison des ouragans à porter un nom, est apparue ce jour dans l'océan Atlantique. = English: The tenth named storm of the Atlantic Hurricane season, Subtropical Storm Jerry, formed in the Atlantic Ocean today.	Layton had asked for changes to the conservatives' environmental bill during the meeting with the PM, asking for a "thorough and complete rewriting" of the Conservative party's environmental bill.	Layton had asked for changes to the Conservative environmental bill at the meeting with the prime minister, asking for a "complete and thorough rewording" of the Conservative environmental bill.
French: Vous pouvez boire l'eau du robinet local sans danger, mais vous pouvez facilement trouver de l'eau en bouteille si vous avez des craintes à son sujet. = English: The local tap water is perfectly safe to drink, but bottled water is easy to find if you are fearful.	The 25 Dunlap broadsides still known to exist are the oldest surviving copies of the document. The original handwritten copy has not survived.	The 25 known surviving copies of the Dunlap document are the oldest known copies of the document. The original handwritten copy has not survived.
French: Il est presque impossible d’échanger de l’argent des Malouines en dehors des îles, alors changez-le avant de quitter les îles. = English: It is nearly impossible to exchange Falklands currency outside of the islands, so exchange money prior to leaving the islands.	Historically most farmers were engaged in subsistence agriculture and this is still the case in many developing nations.	Historically, most farmers practiced subsistence agriculture and this is still the case in many developing countries.
French: J'ai perdu ma sœur et son amie, et sur mon chemin, il y avait deux personnes handicapées en fauteuil roulant, des gens qui ne faisaient que sauter et les pousser », a déclaré Armand Versace. = English: I lost my sister and her friend, and on my way there were two disabled people in wheelchairs, people just jumping over and pushing them," Armand Versace said.	Up means you should start at the tip and push the bow, and down means you should start at the frog (which is where your hand is holding the bow) and pull the bow.	The top means you have to start at the tip and push the bow, and the bottom means you have to start at the frog (which is where your hand holds the bow) and pull the bow.
French: Bien que de nombreux animaux du parc soient habitués à voir des humains, il s'agit néanmoins d'espèces sauvages ; veuillez ne pas les nourrir ni les déranger. = English: Though many of the animals in the park are used to seeing humans, the wildlife is nonetheless wild and should not be fed or disturbed.	A course will normally cover all the issues discussed here in far greater detail, usually with practical experience.	A course will normally cover all of these topics in much more detail, often with practical experience.
French: Les plages du North Shore (dans le district de North Harbour) se trouvent sur l'océan Pacifique et s'étendent de Long Bay au nord à Devonport au sud. = English: North Shore beaches (in North Harbour district) are on the Pacific Ocean and stretch from Long Bay in the north to Devonport in the south.	Vatican City's population is around 800. It is the smallest independent country in the world and the country with the lowest population.	Vatican City has about 800 inhabitants. It is the smallest independent country in the world, and the least populated.
French: Le concept est venu de Chine où les fleurs de prunier étaient la fleur de prédilection. = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	Sharing a field trip virtually is also a great way to reflect a on a trip and share experiences with future classes.	Participating practically in a trip is also a good way to think about a trip and share experiences with future generations.
French: Les plages sont nombreuses, car Auckland est à cheval sur deux ports. Les plus populaires se trouvent dans trois zones. = English: There are many beaches, due to Auckland's straddling of two harbours. The most popular ones are in three areas.	If you have watched the movie National Treasure, you may think a treasure map was written on the back of the Declaration of Independence.	If you have seen the movie Benjamin Gates and the Treasure of the Templars, you might think that a treasure map was drawn on the back of the Declaration of Independence.
French: Le placement en famille d’accueil est censé fournir toutes les nécessités qui faisaient défaut dans le foyer d’où ils ont été auparavant retirés. = English: Foster care is supposed to provide all the necessities that were lacking in the home they were previously taken from.	In fact, it is not easy to find at all even if one knew it existed. Once inside the cave, it is a total isolation.	In reality, it's not easy at all to find, even if you know it exists. When you enter the cave, you are completely isolated.
French: L'expérience Hershey et Chase a été l'une des principales indications que l'ADN était un matériel génétique. = English: The Hershey and Chase experiment was one of the leading suggestions that DNA was a genetic material.	The composition of these crystals matches those found in the urine of affected pets when compared by infrared spectroscopy (FTIR).	The composition of these crystals corresponds to what is found in the urine of affected domestic animals when compared by infrared spectroscopy (IRTF).
French: C’était le dernier match des All Blacks, qui avaient déjà remporté le trophée il y a deux semaines. = English: It was the final match for the All Blacks, who had already won the trophy two weeks ago.	Plans for vaccines to be delivered to the historically most affected areas this year were delayed due to lack of funds and low prioritisation relative to other diseases.	The plans for delivering vaccines to the historically most affected areas this year have been delayed due to a lack of funds and the low priority given to these diseases compared to others.
French: Robin Uthappa a obtenu le score le plus élevé des manches, 70 points en seulement 41 balles en frappant 11 fois quatre runs et 2 fois six runs. = English: Robin Uthappa made the innings highest score, 70 runs in just 41 balls by hitting 11 fours and 2 sixes.	California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed into law a bill that bans the sale or rental of violent video games to minors.	California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a law banning the sale or rental of violent video games to minors.
French: Le rapport est très critique envers presque tous les aspects de la politique actuelle du gouvernement à l'égard de l'Irak et plaide vivement pour un changement de direction immédiat. = English: The Report is highly critical of almost every aspect of the present policy of the Executive towards Iraq and it urges an immediate change of direction.	Examples of on-site activities include hunting, fishing, photography, bird watching, and visiting parks and studying information about the ecosystem.	Hunting, fishing, photography, bird watching, visiting parks and studying information on the ecosystem are examples of on-site activities.
French: Aucun enfant ne devrait jamais avoir à grandir dans un environnement qui n’est pas stimulant, attentionné et éducatif, mais c’est le cas. = English: No child should ever have to grow up in an environment that is not nurturing, caring, and educational, but they do.	These couples may choose to make an adoption plan for their baby.	These couples can choose to make an adoption plan for their baby.
French: Ce nouvel environnement a des ressources et des concurrents différents, de sorte que la nouvelle population aura besoin de caractéristiques ou d'adaptations nouvelles pour être un concurrent puissant par rapport à ce dont elle avait besoin auparavant. = English: This new environment has different resources and different competitors, so the new population will need different features or adaptations to be a strong competitor than what they had needed before.	Like some other experts, he is skeptical about whether diabetes can be cured, noting that these findings have no relevance to people who already have Type 1 diabetes.	Like other experts, he is sceptical about the possibility of curing diabetes, noting that these results are not applicable to people who already suffer from type 1 diabetes.
French: Bien que trois personnes aient été présentes dans la maison quand la voiture l'a percutée, aucune n'a été blessée. = English: Although three people were inside the house when the car impacted it, none of them were hurt.	Since Montevideo is south of the Equator, it is summer there when it's winter in the Northern Hemisphere and vice versa.	Montevideo being located south of the equator, winter in the northern hemisphere corresponds to summer there and vice versa.
French: Le village de Haldarsvík offre des vues sur l’île voisine d’Eysturoy et abrite une église octogonale inhabituelle. = English: The village of Haldarsvík offer views of the nearby island Eysturoy and has an unusual octagonal church.	It's expected that most event tickets will cost between ¥2,500 and ¥130,000, with typical tickets costing around ¥7,000.	It is expected that most event tickets cost between 2,500 and 130,000 yen, with typical tickets costing about 7,000 yen.
French: Ce comportement entraîne souvent des dissensions entre les dirigeants et le reste de l'équipe. = English: This behavior oftentimes results in rifts between the leaders and the rest of the team.	For over a thousand years the Christian religion had bound European states together despite differences in language and customs. I	For more than a thousand years, Christianity has tied European states together despite differences in language and customs.
French: Les croisières à Saint-Pétersbourg incluent du temps passé dans la ville. Les passagers des croisières sont exemptés de l'obligation de visa (voir les conditions). = English: Saint Petersburg cruises include time in town. Cruise passengers are exempted from visa requirements (check the terms).	Though many of the animals in the park are used to seeing humans, the wildlife is nonetheless wild and should not be fed or disturbed.	Although many of the animals in the park are accustomed to seeing humans, they are nevertheless wild species; please do not feed or disturb them.
French: Le dernier match du championnat aura lieu à l’Ellis Park de Johannesburg la semaine prochaine, lorsque les Springboks affronteront l’Australie. = English: The final match of the series will take place at Ellis Park in Johannesburg next week, when the Springboks play Australia.	Britain mined international waters to prevent any ships from entering entire sections of ocean, causing danger to even neutral ships.	Britain mined international waters in order to prevent ships from venturing into entire maritime zones, thus posing a threat even to neutral ships.
French: Autre différence : alors que les pauvres et la femme mangeaient leur nourriture en étant assis sur des chaises, les hommes riches aimaient organiser des banquets ensemble où ils se reposaient sur le côté pendant qu’ils prenaient leur repas. = English: Another difference was that while the poor people and the woman ate their food while sitting in chairs, the rich men liked to have banquets together where they would lounge on their sides while they ate their meals.	Plants look their best when in a natural environment, so resist the temptation to remove even "just one" specimen.	Plants look their best when they are in a natural environment, so resist the temptation to take even just one.
French: À un moment donné, un membre de la foule a brandi la tête d'un garde royal tué à Versailles devant la reine terrorisée. = English: At one point a member of the mob waved the head of a royal guard killed at Versailles in front of the terrified Queen.	Between 10:00-11:00 pm MDT, a fire was started by the inmates in the yard.	Between 10 p.m. and 11 p.m. MDT, the prisoners lit a fire in the courtyard.
French: Comme exemple, les citoyens américains au Moyen-Orient pourraient être confrontés à des situations différentes de celles des Européens ou des Arabes. = English: As one example, American citizens in the Middle East might face different situations from Europeans or Arabs.	The “invisible team” is the management team to which each of the members report. The invisible team sets the standards for each member.	The "invisible team" is the team of managers to whom each member reports. It sets the standards for each of them.
French: Tous les animaux qui sont arrivés sur ces îles l'ont fait à l'origine par les eaux, à la nage ou à bord d'objets flottants, ou par les airs. = English: All animals that originally arrived in the islands came here either by swimming, flying or floating.	Fears of lack of transportation raised the possibility that the game would be forced to play behind closed doors without the team's supporters.	The fear of a lack of transport has led to the possibility that the match could be played without the supporters of the teams.
French: On peut par exemple aller voir, photographier et découvrir les orang-outans de Bornéo. = English: An example is visiting, photographing, and learning about organgatuangs in Borneo.	Each temple had an open temple courtyard and then an inner sanctuary that only the priests could enter.	Each temple had an open courtyard, then an inner sanctuary to which only priests could access.
French: Michael Schumacher a terminé sa course peu de temps après Alonso, en raison des dommages subis au niveau des suspensions tout au long de la course. = English: Michael Schumacher ended his race not long after Alonso, because of the suspension damage in the numerous battles during the race.	The center of Tibetan meditation is the Deity Yoga. Through the visualization of various deities the energy channels are cleaned, the chakras are activated and the enlightenment consciousness is created.	The center of Tibetan meditation is the yoga of deity. It is through the visualization of different deities that the energy channels are cleaned, the chakras activated, and the awakening consciousness created.
French: Le concept est venu de Chine où les fleurs de prunier étaient la fleur de prédilection. = English: The concept came from China where plum blossoms were the flower of choice.	There are no particular "rainy" and "dry" seasons: the amount of rain stays roughly the same throughout the year.	There are no really wet and dry seasons: precipitation is roughly constant throughout the year.
French: Goma est une ville touristique située à l'extrême est de la République Démocratique du Congo, près du Rwanda. = English: Goma is a tourist city of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the extreme east near Rwanda.	After a week of losses in the midterm election, Bush told an audience about the expansion of trade in Asia.	After seven days of electoral defeats in the midterm elections, Bush announced his plan to expand trade in Asia.
French: Les étriers sont des appuis pour les pieds du cavalier, qui pendent de chaque côté de la selle. = English: Stirrups are supports for the rider's feet that hang down on either side of the saddle.	Sadly, as newer methods of writing have emerged, the pencil has been relegated to lesser status and uses.	Unfortunately, the appearance of new writing styles relegated the pen to a more confidential status and to more rare uses.
French: Muhammad s’intéressait profondément à des questions qui dépassaient le cadre de cette vie mondaine. Il avait l’habitude de fréquenter une grotte qui est devenue célèbre sous le nom de « Hira' » sur la montagne de « Noor » (lumière) pour la contemplation. = English: Muhammad was deeply interested in matters beyond this mundane life. He used to frequent a cave that became known as “Hira‘” on the Mountain of “Noor” (light) for contemplation.	Accepted were Aristotle's views on all matters of science, including psychology.	Aristotle’s opinions on all scientific questions, including psychology, were accepted.
French: Singapour est généralement considéré comme un endroit extrêmement sûr, où il est très aisé de se déplacer, et où vous pourrez acheter presque tout ce dont vous avez besoin une fois arrivé sur place. = English: Singapore is generally an extremely safe place to be and very easy to navigate, and you can buy almost anything after arriving.	Content theories are centered on finding what makes people tick or appeals to them.	Theories of content are focused on the search for what makes people feel good or attracted.
French: Un ancien policier philippin a pris en otage des touristes de Hong Kong en détournant leur bus à Manille, la capitale des Philippines. = English: A former Filipino policeman has kept Hong Kong tourists hostage by hijacking their bus in Manila, the capital of the Philippines.	We make our houses from plants and make clothes from plants. Most foods that we eat are plants. Without plants, animals could not survive.	We make our houses and clothes from plants. Most of the food we eat is plant-based. Without plants, animals would not survive.
French: L'« équipe invisible » est l'équipe de direction à laquelle chacun des membres rend ses comptes. Elle établit les standards pour chaque d'eux. = English: The “invisible team” is the management team to which each of the members report. The invisible team sets the standards for each member.	The final match of the series will take place at Ellis Park in Johannesburg next week, when the Springboks play Australia.	The last match of the championship will take place next week at Ellis Park in Johannesburg, when the Springboks will play Australia.
French: Avant les Simpsons, Simon avait travaillé sur plusieurs séries, occupant divers postes. = English: Before The Simpsons Simon had worked on several shows in various positions.	One of the most common methods used to illustrate the importance of socialization is to draw upon the few unfortunate cases of children who were, through neglect, misfortune, or wilful abuse, not socialized by adults while they were growing up.	One of the most common methods used to illustrate the importance of socialization is to draw on the few unfortunate cases of children who, through neglect, misfortune or deliberate abuse, have not been socialized by adults during their childhood.
French: La ville est également le point de départ pour l'ascension du volcan Nyiragongo ainsi que pour des treks de pistage des gorilles des montagnes parmi les moins chers d'Afrique. = English: The city is also the base to climb the Nyiragongo volcano along with some of the cheapest Mountain Gorilla tracking in Africa.	The money could go toward flood-proof houses, better water management, and crop diversification.	The money could be used to build flood-resistant houses, better water management and diversify crops.
French: Une étude publiée jeudi dans la revue Science a fait état de la genèse d'une nouvelle espèce d'oiseau dans les îles Galápagos équatoriennes. = English: A study published on Thursday in the journal Science reported on formation of a new bird species on the Ecuadorean Galápagos Islands.	Money can be exchanged at the only bank in the islands which is located in Stanley across from the FIC West store.	Money can be exchanged at the only bank of the islands, located in Stanley, opposite the FIC West store.
French: Un téléphone satellite ne remplace généralement pas un téléphone portable, car il faut être à l'extérieur et avoir une vue dégagée sur le satellite pour passer un appel. = English: A satellite phone is not generally a replacement for a mobile phone, as you have to be outdoors with clear line of sight to the satellite to make a phone call.	Do not deface the site by marking or scratching graffiti into structures.	Do not deface the site by marking or scratching graffiti on the structures.
